Upon the defeat on the Civil List, finding I had the misfortune no
longer to enjoy the confidence of the House of Commons, I thought proper
to resign the situation which I held in his Majesty's service. Upon that
occasion, the question of Parliamentary Reform had no more to do, as far
as I was concerned, with the resignation which I tendered to his Majesty
on the day following the defeat on the Civil List, than anything else
in the world. I admit I resigned next morning, because I did not wish to
expose his Majesty and the country to the consequences that might result
from the Government going out on the success of the question of
Parliamentary Reform. This is the truth; but, to say I resigned on
account of Parliamentary Reform, is wrong; I resigned upon the ground
before stated; and I resigned at that particular moment on the Tuesday,
because I did not choose to expose his Majesty and the country to the
consequences that might ensue from the occurrence of the case just
mentioned. This is the real fact of the story. But the noble and learned
Lord has said, that the late Ministry gave up the principle of
Parliamentary Reform by their resignation; no such thing--we resigned
because we did not possess the confidence of the House of Commons, and
we thought that the same majority which defeated us on Monday on the
Civil List, might defeat us Tuesday on Reform; and then we should have
sacrificed (as the noble Lord says), the principle of Parliamentary
Reform in the Commons. So they walked a quarter of an hour, until
Joseph suddenly broke the silence by launching an expletive. --...¡
This is a crap!

Today we do not go to sea or dogs!

       Three or four sailors were quick to say: - You're right .-- It is
a time .-- pig is good for pigs, but not for men. - For us, José -
concluded one - stop ahead ...

If you think, turned [153.1] ...

Joseph not answered remained silent a few minutes until, suddenly rising,
said determined tone: - Boy, this lantern lit ... A change. [153.2]
The rapacious lit the lantern, and placed it in the bow with visible
satisfaction. The crew executed the maneuver also satisfied, but not
show it. The boat began to sail toward Kneepad orzada. Instantly
saw burning in the distance apart, one after the other, the lights of
all the boats. This meant that all had seen the sign and returned
to port. - If you could not! [153.3] - said one. - Who is going to win
out to sea today! - Said another. - But donkey and those of Nicolas
Toribio, why they sent revolver? They were all off the tongue. But
after walking a while talking, by Joseph Lee noted the package was going
on a boat not far from yours, with no light at the bow. - Alto,
guys - he said .-- What the hell is this? Where does this boat? -
Question. The boss was standing with his hands and making a horn,
shouted: - Oh the boat! [154.1] - What do you want Jose? - Answered the
the other, who knew him by voice. - Where you going, Hermenegildo -
asked Joseph, who had known him. "- from the beach - said the
other was approaching soon. - But no you lit the lanterns after I put
him?
I believe that these
revenues, independent of droits and West Indian duties, amount, at the
present moment, to 850,000 l. a-year; and these revenues, my Lords, I
consider as much the King's property, as I hold the possessions of your
Lordships to be yours. I make this statement, because it is important
that your Lordships should recollect it, and the public should know that
notwithstanding the magnitude of the expenses of the Sovereign, the
Sovereign has as much right to the sum which I have mentioned, as any of
your Lordships to your own estates. The system of giving the Sovereign
the amount of certain taxes to defray the expenses of the civil
government, was first departed from at the commencement of the reign of
Geo. III., when a fixed sum was appointed, instead of that mode of
payment, for its support. In process of time the expenses of the civil
government increased, and the Civil List became a debt. The consequence
was, that in the year 1815, an inquiry was instituted into the
circumstances which had caused this increase of charges upon the Civil
List, up to the period of the Regency. What was the course then adopted
by Parliament? Why, it was to bring certain charges--as, for instance,
the charges for ambassadors and ministers abroad--under the annual vote
of Parliament; and the immediate object was to avoid thereby the fixing
of any fresh debt, for which no estimate could be previously made, upon
the Civil List. In 1820 it was determined that nothing whatever should
be brought before Parliament, in connexion with the Civil List, that was
a casual expense, or for which a regular vote could not be submitted.

The original system, I have already stated, had been departed from in
the reign of George III., and the late Government in presenting their
civil list made a still further departure from it, and upon this
principle;--wherever a part of a salary was to be paid out of the civil
list, and part out of the consolidated fund, it was resolved to pay all
out of the consolidated fund. The course was adopted with regard to the
salaries of the Judges, the Lord Chancellor, and the Speaker of the
House of Commons, and also of various other offices, some of which have
been since abolished. This was thought a less objectionable mode than
that of subjecting those salaries to an annual discussion in the
Committee of the House of Commons. We wished my Lords to place those
salaries upon the consolidated fund, in order to prevent the possibility
of the country being left without a proper and efficient administration
of public affairs. We did not wish to leave the Government to the chance
of being impeded by a small majority, in the House of Commons, which,
according to other proposed plans, might diminish the salaries of public
officers at pleasure. If my Lord we look to the period of the Revolution
we shall find that there were long discussions respecting the right of
the crown to its hereditary revenues, which ended in a concession of the
principle that these revenues did belong to the crown. At that time
nobody ever dreamed of separating the expenses of the crown from those
of the civil government, and of making a separate provision for the
support of the state and dignity of the crown, which should be subject
to the controul of parliament. The plan of separation, my Lords, is one
of modern invention altogether, and I totally dissent from it. Because,
let us look to the situation in which the crown is placed under the
operation of such a system, and we must observe that it will place the
crown in a situation such as it ought not to be reduced to; namely that
it will render it liable to be deprived of the assistance--say of a
public officer, whose salary may be lost by a single vote in a committee
of supply.

_April, 19th, 1831._

       *       *       *       *       *

_The Expenses of Ministers ruinous, unless they have large Private
fortunes._

With respect to the reduction in the salaries of the great officers of
state, I have only to observe, that even under the existing rate of
salaries, unless a First Lord of the Treasury, (and the remark will
apply to the other state officers) possesses a large private fortune, he
must be ruined in consequence of the heavy expences entailed on him by
his situation, and the inadequacy of the sum allowed by the public for
the maintenance of those expenses. In proof of this, I may instance the
case of three prime ministers--Mr. Pitt, Mr. Percival, and Mr.
Canning,--all of whom were almost ruined by their being in office. I
took upon myself to propose a provision for the family of Mr. Canning in
consequence.

_April, 19th. 1831._

_The Roman Catholic Relief Bill settled the question of the Repeal of
the Union._

It is not my intention at present to enter into the question, as to the
expediency of granting the Roman Catholic claims; for I hope that
question is for ever set at rest. The former government of this country
derived some advantage from the settlement of that question; and I
believe that this advantage will at least be admitted to have flowed
from it,--that now there is no question either in this or the other
House of Parliament, or among the public, respecting the necessity or
expediency of repealing the Union. When I introduced the Catholic Relief
Bill, I stated that political power already existed in the hands of the
Roman Catholics, and that was a statement, generally admitted by noble
Lords on both sides of the House. Siguiéronle several others, in no small
number, particularly since 1584, and represented, if we are to reliable
testimony, received significant applause. [9] It was not enough, however,
the product of comedies to meet the subsistence of Cervantes and his
family. The hapless poet, compelled by poverty, then asked for a
collector of contributions in Spanish America, the last refuge of the
desperate, as he said, but had to settle for the junior and low-profit
fleet provider Indies , for which reason was Seville in the year
1588.

It ends the first period of his life dramatically, and then discuss
more extensively.

       Permanency Seville lasted at least ten years, having made several
trips to various towns of Andalusia, and even some at Madrid, then,
in addition to their destination, engaged sometimes collect taxes
and manage the assets of certain individuals.

The time spent in Seville was not lost, however, for poetry, despite
the anti-poetic business before it.

Populous city, the richer and more lively throughout Spain, the
deposit of the riches of America, offered a wide field observer
talent and in character as in the customs of its inhabitants, which
is noted in his excellent novels and _Rinconete Cortadillo_ and
_The extremeño_ jealous. True descriptions of the customs of the
Andalusian people, we read almost all the works of Cervantes, was the
result of their observations and the original color that
distinguishes his poetry after this season, which preceded it,
the singular grace The slight irony that characterizes them, and in
which he was master, the acquisition, without a doubt, while
living in this province and tried to close to his witty and waking
residents. Ocurrióle then a monetary setback, not a little bitter that
their existence. Delivered to a trader in Seville a small sum of money,
a product of the contributions he made to the Treasury, but spent the
depositary, then disappeared, Cervantes and the poor, without means
to pay them, and accused of embezzling flow, had to go to jail,
of which only came out after giving sufficient bail.

In the four years following the 1598, we have no reliable data on
their lives.

       His early biographers assume that by this time was living in the
Channel, and talk about some issue that had Argamasilla, his
imprisonment in it, the principle of _Don Quijote_ the same time,
and other things of this jaez.

The main foundations that support them, are the traditions that
have until now kept in the English Channel.

Add to this the exact knowledge of the country, which shows in his _Don
Quijote_, reason enough to give credibility to his assertions, that
Cervantes lived some time in this province, even if nothing positive
is known of the time when this happens, and other details are not
less interesting.

In what is certain is that this era drew to a plan and wrote part
of that immortal work, not only jewel of Spanish literature, but
of all Europe.

       In early 1603 to proceed to the court of Valladolid, partly for
dispel accusations indicated, which were renewed by this time,
partly to assert their long justísimos titles and services provided
and obtain a reward.

It seems that was the first object, but the success of the second
was so unhappy, he resigned his claims in full, dedicated solely
to business management, to which it, and to live with the proceeds
of his writings.

In the month of February, 1817, the noble Lord said,
"constituted as it now was, he, in his conscience, believed that the
House of Commons was, of all other institutions, in all the other
countries of the world, the institution best calculated for the general
protection of the subject. Supported by the people, in temperate and
firm claims for redress, it was not only able, but certain to remedy
every wrong. It was capable of acting as the most efficient control upon
the executive, by diminishing the means of consumption, and reducing the
pressure of a severe and grinding taxation." That was the opinion of the
noble Earl himself, in 1817; and what, I would ask, has the Parliament
done, subsequently, to deserve the disapprobation of the noble Earl?
What had it done between 1817 and the moment when I pronounced that
approbation of Parliament, of which my noble friend (Earl Winchelsea)
and the noble Earl (Grey) have so much disapproved? When the noble Earl
quoted what I said not quite a twelvemonth ago, he might, I think, quote
it correctly. What I said was, that Parliament had done its duty by the
country, and enjoyed its confidence. I said, that if I had to create a
constitution of Parliament, I could not create that which now existed,
because I did not believe the art of one man could invent such a system;
but I said, that I would do my endeavour to establish one like it, in
which property in land should be preponderant. That was what I said; and
I afterwards had the satisfaction to hear the noble Marquis (Lansdowne)
deliver a similar opinion. He stated that, in any system of
representation which he could support, property and learning must be
preponderant. I said that I should consider it my duty to resist the
adopting of any plan of reform that should be brought forward. I spoke
as a minister of the Crown; I meant to resist reform. The noble Lords
say, that this statement of mine caused great enmity to me, and created
that spirit of reform which has since pervaded the whole country. I beg
the noble Earl's pardon; but the spirit of reform in this country was
the consequence of the French revolution. It is true, that ever since
the American war, a desire for Parliamentary Reform has been manifested,
particularly when any disturbance or insurrection has occurred in any of
the neighbouring foreign countries--above all, since the French
revolution; and when there has been any extraordinary distress or
difficulty in the country. At the same time, I believe that, from year
to year, the manifestations of such a desire have been less frequent. I
have, indeed, the authority of those most friendly to reform for saying
that the manifestations of the desire for reform were less frequent,
till the period of the revolution of July, 1830, than they had formerly
been for a number of years.

_October 4, 1831._

_Electoral Pledges Unconstitutional._

It is on the ground of the dissolution, and of the Speech from the
Throne,[14] that I charge the noble Lords with having excited the spirit
which existed in the country at the period of the last general election;
and with having been the cause of the unconstitutional practice,
hitherto unknown, of electing delegates for a particular purpose to
Parliament--delegates to obey the daily instructions of their
constituents, and to be cashiered if they should disobey them, whatever
may be their own opinion; instead of being, as they have been hitherto,
independent members of Parliament, to deliberate with their colleagues
upon matters of common concern, and to decide according to the best of
their judgment, after such deliberation and debate. This is an evil of
which the country will long feel the consequences, whatever may be the
result of these discussions.

[Footnote 14: The Whig ministry dissolved the Parliament in April, 1831.
A new Parliament met in June; and, on the 21st of that month, the King
made the speech alluded to. In the interval there had been great
excitement in the country.]

My Lords, this measure, thus delegated by the people, and thus brought
forward by the Government in Parliament, for the decision of members
thus delegated to give it the force of a law, alters every thing; and
requires, as the noble Secretary of State (Lord Melbourne) says, new
powers, in order to render it practicable to carry on the Government at
all.

John built a new fort, took Biserta and returned to Sicily with
some of its troops.

       The company that was moved to Sardinia Cervantes, remained there
in the winter of 1573 á 1574 and then marched to Genoa, where some
disturbances had occurred.

Came to contain D. John of Lombardy, and knew then that the Turks were
preparing to retake á Tunisia and Goleta; boarded Spezia to Naples,
some of its troops (among whom was Cervantes), and from here was
to sail to Tunisia .

A hurricane sunk almost threw his hat, and dragged back to the Italian
coast. Meanwhile, after struggling and resistance, and Tunisia
lost Goleta, and thus dashed the hopes of D. Juan. Cervantes remained
in Sicily under the command of the Duke of Sesa, but was soon sent to
Spain, and by their natural desire to return to their homeland, and
discouraged to see the poor deserved their award, with the object in the
requested leave summer of 1575. Concediósele indeed, and highly honorable.
Juan and the Duke of Sesa gave him letters of recommendation to the King,
in which he begged to address the merits of this distinguished
man, who had won the estimation of equal and higher [4].

Under such favorable auspices Cervantes embarked in Naples in the galley
of _Sol_ with his brother Rodrigo, but return to their homeland was
not as easy as believed. The boat ran on September 26 in 1575 with an
Algerian corsair and was captured after a long resistance and
taken to Algiers. Cervantes, to share the spoils, luck played the
renegade-Dali Mami, who exulted that he had fallen into their hands
so distinguished a gentleman as Cervantes, carrying a letter to
King Philip II, and with the hope of heavy rescue, and tormented
with bad treatment, but the audacious captive, rather than daunt,
he formed the plan to regain their freedom and their peers and
encouraged them to escape to Oran.

       Had already left for Algiers, where he discovered the Moor, who
promised lead and were forced to return to jail and suffer torments
harder [5].

One of the captives, who was rescued and returned to Spain, a part father's
unhappy fate of his two sons. The good old committed to continuing
its scarce goods, without thinking that in this way be reduced to
abject poverty he and his entire family and sent to Algiers Point to a
non-negligible amount.
If we are to make a change, there can be no reason
for not going the full length that the people wish, if we can be sure
that the measure will not injure the Government--that to which they are
attached--of King, Lords, and Commons.

_October 4, 1831._

_Necessity of the Influence of Property in the House of Commons._

But before we go further, it is desirable that we should examine what is
the Government of King, Lords, and Commons, as established in this
kingdom. In this Government the King is at the head of everything. All
the power is in his hands. He is the head of the Church, the head of the
law. Justice is administered in his name. He is the protector of the
peace of the country, the head of its political negociations, and of its
armed force--not a shilling of public money can be expended without his
order and signature. But, notwithstanding these immense powers, the King
can do nothing that is contrary to law, or to the engagements of himself
or his predecessors.

       *       *       *       *       *

Every act of the Government, or of the King, is liable to be brought
under discussion in, and is in fact controlled by, the House of Commons;
and for this reason alone, it is important that we should consider of
what description of men the House of Commons is likely to be composed,
when we are discussing a question of Parliamentary Reform, in order
that we may be quite certain that they will exercise their high function
with wisdom and discretion.

- Cars Auto sacramental birth .-- .-- .-- Entremeses Loas .-- Relations
of the seventeenth century French traveler who attended drama in
Spain. CHAPTER VII .-- Decoration and Canadian theaters for stage
machinery .- -Suits.
The asking price was more
than double the sum, which brought them, but thanks to the efforts of Fr
Gil, who increased the amount borrowed and somewhat silenced the
claims for Hassan, Cervantes was able to get his freedom in September
19, 1580.I
did not consider this any answer to my question, which I repeated in a
subsequent discussion, on the motion of my noble friend, the noble Baron
behind me (Lord Wharncliffe). The noble Earl said, that the Government
had nothing to do with such questions; that Parliament was to decide for
itself; and that there was no necessity for the interference of
Government.

I beg your Lordships to consider what are the questions which in every
week, and on every day, are brought under the discussion of the House of
Commons--questions affecting the honour, the interests, the rights, the
property, of every individual in the country, which the King is bound by
his oath to protect, and in the protection of which, all are equally
interested. They are questions regarding the proceedings of Courts of
Justice, regarding the use of the public force, and hundreds of others,
which occur daily, in which every individual is interested. - Wheel
came top - said another. - And cigars from Havana - said a third. - I
forgave him [12.4] all - Bernardo said - as long as the wedding day we
to go see a comedy Sarrio. - It is impossible that we not reparas Jose
that night can not sleep late? - Well, then give us quarters [12.5]
to go, and he goes home. The pattern we all listened without
saying a word with the same benevolent smile on his lips.
The King could not
perform the duties of his high station, nor the House of Lords, if the
House of Commons were formed on the principle and plan proposed by this
bill.

