When he had a large heap, he tied two opposite ends of blanket
together and lifted the bundle of wood upon his back, but alas! he had
unconsciously dropped the end of the rope and now he was lost in the
wood!

"Hin! hin!" he groaned. Then pausing a moment, he set his fan-like ears
to catch any sound of approaching footsteps. "Be pleased, sir," continued
the ranger, in great wrath--"be pleased to explain how you have
lost your shadow."

Here again an excuse was ready: "A boor of a fellow," said I, "one
day trod so rudely on my shadow that he tore a large hole in it.

"Friend, my friend, I have need of you! The old oak tree grandfather
has gone off with my eyes and I am lost in the woods!" he cried with his
lips close to the earth.

Scarcely had he spoken when the sound of voices was audible on the outer
edge of the forest. Nearer and louder grew the voices--one was the clear
flute tones of a young brave and the other the tremulous squeaks of an
old grandfather.

It was Manstin's friend with the Earth Ear and the old grandfather.
"Here Manstin, take back your eyes," said the old man, "I knew you would
not be content in my stead, but I wanted you to learn your lesson. I
have had pleasure seeing with your eyes and trying your bow and arrows,
but since I am old and feeble I much prefer my own teepee and my magic
bags!"

Thus talking the three returned to the hut. The old grandfather crept
into his wigwam, which is often mistaken for a mere oak tree by little
Indian girls and boys.

Manstin, with his own bright eyes fitted into his head again, went on
happily to hunt in the North country.


THE WARLIKE SEVEN


ONCE seven people went out to make war,--the Ashes, the Fire, the
Bladder, the Grasshopper, the Dragon Fly, the Fish, and the Turtle. As
they were talking excitedly, waving their fists in violent gestures, a
wind came and blew the Ashes away. "Ho!" cried the others, "he could not
fight, this one!"

The six went on running to make war more quickly. They descended a deep
valley, the Fire going foremost until they came to a river. The Fire
said "Hsss--tchu!" and was gone. "Ho!" hooted the others, "he could not
fight, this one!"

Therefore the five went on the more quickly to make war. They came to a
great wood. While they were going through it, the Bladder was heard
to sneer and to say, "He! you should rise above these, brothers." I
should not, however, be stating the truth if I said that I liked
being there, for the customs of this nation displeased me; besides,
I had only a few chosen friends there, and these were noble young
men.

The longing after home at last possessed me mightily; during the whole
of that time I had not heard anything from my father, and I therefore
seized a favorable opportunity of reaching home. An embassy from France
left for Turkey. I acted as surgeon to the suite of the Ambassador and
arrived happily in Stamboul.He crawled upon a log and wept, "You see me, brothers, I
cannot go!"

The Dragon Fly went on, weeping for his cousin. He would not be
comforted, for he loved his cousin dearly. The more he grieved, the
louder he cried, till his body shook with great violence. He blew his
red swollen nose with a loud noise so that his head came off his slender
neck, and he was fallen upon the grass.

"You see how it is," said the Fish, lashing his tail impatiently, "these
people were not warriors!"

"Come!" he said, "let us go on to make war."

Thus the Fish and the Turtle came to a large camp ground.

"Ho!" exclaimed the people of this round village of teepees, "Who are
these little ones? What do they seek?"

Neither of the warriors carried weapons with them, and their unimposing
stature misled the curious people.

The Fish was spokesman. With a peculiar omission of syllables, he said:
"Shu... hi pi!"

"Wan! what? what?" clamored eager voices of men and women.

