      Inconsistencies and irregularities in spelling in the original
      text have been retained. The table of contents was created for
      this eBook.

JOURNAL OF A VOYAGE FROM OKKAK, ON THE COAST OF LABRADOR, TO UNGAVA BAY, WESTWARD OF CAPE CHUDLEIGH;

UNDERTAKEN to Explore the Coast, and Visit the ESQUIMAUX in that Unknown Region

by

BENJAMIN KOHLMEISTER and GEORGE KMOCH

Missionaries of the Church of the Unitas Fratrum or United Brethren

London: Printed by W. M'Dowall, Pemberton Row, Gough Square, Fleet Street, for the Brethren's
Society for the Furtherance of the Gospel Among the Heathen. And Sold By J. Le Febvre, 2, Chapel-Place,
Nevils-Court, Fetter-Lane; L. B. Seeley, 169, Fleet-Street; Hazard And Binns, Bath; and T.
Bulgin, and T. Lambe, Bristol

1814

JOURNAL OF A VOYAGE,

&c. &c.

CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION                                                   3

CHAPTER I.

  Outfit. Opinions of the Esquimaux respecting the Voyage.
  Description of the Company. Departure from Okkak. Arrival
  at Nungorome.                                                6

CHAPTER II.

  Departure from Nungorome Cove. Account of Solomon.
  Drift-ice. Cape Mugford. Waterfalls from the Kaumayok
  Mountains. Fruitless attempt to get out of the Ikkerasak,
  or Straits.                                                 10

CHAPTER III.

  Quit the Ikkerasak. Account of the Kaumayok Mountains, and
  of Kangertluksoak. Public Worship on Sunday. Saeglek and
  its Inhabitants described. The Missionaries visit the
  Esquimaux at Kikkertarsoak.                                 14

CHAPTER IV.

  Departure from Saeglek. Fruitless attempt to reach
  Nachvak. Retreat into Nullatartok Inlet. Slate Bay.
  Detention on account of the Ice. Arrive at Nachvak.         20

CHAPTER V.

  Reception at Nachvak. Description of the bay. The
  Esquimaux manner of spearing salmon and trout. Christian
  deportment of the Okkak and Hopedale Esquimaux. Jonas's
  address to the Heathen. Love of music general among these
  Indians. Departure from Nachvak. Danger in doubling the
  North Cape. Arrival at Sangmiyok bay.                       27

CHAPTER VI.

  Pass Cape Nennoktok. Visit the Esquimaux families at
  Kummaktorvik and Amitok. Description of an Esquimaux
  travelling bed. Mountains seen at Ungava. Netsek seal
  described. Greenland houses. Danger of being shipwrecked
  near Kakkeviak.                                             33

CHAPTER VII.

  Arrival at Oppernavik. Account of Uttakiyok. His
  perseverance in waiting for the arrival of the
  Missionaries. Islands and bays between Kakkeviak and
  Killinek. Danger in the ice at Ammitok. Want of fuel
  supplied by robbing old graves.                             39

CHAPTER VIII.

  Departure from Oppernavik. Pass the Ikkerasak of Killinek.
  Whirlpools. The coast takes a southerly direction. Meeting
  with Esquimaux from the Ungava country, who had never seen
  an European. Anchor at Omanek. High tides. Drift-wood.
  Double Cape Uibvaksoak. Distant view of Akpatok.            44

CHAPTER IX.

  Chain of black mountains. The Dragon's dwelling. Changes
  occasioned by rise and fall of the tides, and dangers
  attending them. Uttakiyok's superstitious customs.
  Singular effect of the tide in the bay of Ittimnekoktok.
  Arrive at Kangertlualuksoak bay and river. Its situation.
  Transactions there.                                         50

CHAPTER X.

  Further transactions in Kangertlualuksoak Bay. The
  Esquimaux women frightened by reports of Indians. Ceremony
  of taking possession of this new-explored country, as
  belonging to the King of England, and of naming the river
  George river. Leave the bay and proceed to Arvarvik.
  Whales caught by the Esquimaux in the shallows. Storm at
  Kernertut.                                                  56

CHAPTER XI.

  Doubts expressed by Jonathan and the other Esquimaux on
  the expediency of continuing the voyage. Consultations.
  Resolve to proceed. Thunder-storm at Pitsiolak. Account of
  Indians. Esquimaux cookery and hunting feasts. Arrival in
  the river Koksoak.                                          62

CHAPTER XII.

  Sail up the river Koksoak. Transactions in that region.
  Dangerous eddy. Meet Esquimaux. Address to them. Their joy
  and eagerness to have Missionaries, resident among them.
  Find a suitable situation for a settlement. Description of
  the country.                                                70

CHAPTER XIII.

  Return to Okkak.                                            77

INTRODUCTION.

For these many years past, a considerable number of Esquimaux have been in the annual practice
of visiting the three missionary establishments of the United Brethren on the coast of Labrador,
OKKAK, NAIN, and HOPEDALE, chiefly with a view to barter, or to see those of their friends
and acquaintance, who had become obedient to the gospel, and lived together in Christian fellowship,
enjoying the instruction of the Missionaries.

These people came mostly from the north, and some of them from a great distance. They reported,
that the body of the Esquimaux nation lived near and beyond Cape Chudleigh, which they call
Killinek, and having conceived much friendship for the Missionaries, never failed to request,
that some of them would come to their country, and even urged the formation of a new settlement,
considerably to the north of Okkak.

To these repeated and earnest applications the Missionaries were the more disposed to listen,
as it had been discovered, not many years after the establishment of the Mission in 1771, that
that part of the coast on which, by the encouragement of the British government, the first
settlement was made, was very thinly inhabited, and that the aim of the Mission, to convert
the Esquimaux to Christianity, would be better obtained, if access could be had to the main
body of the Indians, from which the roving inhabitants appeared to be mere stragglers. Circumstances,
however, prevented more extensive plans from being put in execution; and the Missionaries,
having gained the confidence and esteem of the Esquimaux in their neighbourhood, remained stationary
on that coast, and, by degrees, formed three settlements, OKKAK, to the north, and HOPEDALE,
to the south of NAIN, their first place of residence.

In consequence of the abovementioned invitation, it became a subject of serious consideration,
by what means a more correct idea of the extent and dwelling-places of the Esquimaux nation
might be obtained, and a general wish was expressed, that one or more of the Missionaries would
undertake the perilous task of visiting such places as were reported by the Esquimaux themselves
to contain more inhabitants than the southern coast, but remained unknown to European navigators.

The Synodal Committee, appointed for the management of the Missions of the United Brethren,
having given their consent to the measure, and agreed with Brother Kohlmeister, by occasion
of a visit paid by him to his relations and friends in Germany, as to the mode of putting it
into execution, he returned to Labrador in 1810, and prepared to undertake the voyage early
in the spring of 1811.

For several years a correspondence had taken place between the Missionaries in Labrador and
the Brethren's Society for the Furtherance of the Gospel, established in London, relating to
the manner in which the voyage should be performed. Opinions were various on the subject; but
it was at length determined, that a steady intelligent Christian Esquimaux, possessing a shallop,
with two masts, and of sufficient dimensions, should be appointed to accompany one or two Missionaries,
for a liberal recompence; and that the travellers should spend the winter at Okkak, to be ready
to proceed on the voyage, without loss of time, as soon as the state of the ice would permit
of it. Brother Kohlmeister proposed, in this view, the Esquimaux Jonathan, of Hopedale, and
the brig employed to convey the annual supply of necessaries to the three settlements, was
ordered to proceed first to Hopedale, partly with a view to this negociation. She arrived safe
with Brother Kohlmeister at this place, on the 22d July, 1810. On the same day, he proposed
to Jonathan the intended expedition, laid before him the whole plan, with all its difficulties
and advantages, and found him immediately willing to undertake the voyage, and to forward its
object by every means in his power.

This was no small sacrifice on the part of Jonathan. An Esquimaux is naturally attached to
the place of his birth; and, though he spends the summer, and indeed great part of the year,
necessarily, and from inclination, in roving from one place to another in quest of food; yet
in winter he settles, if possible, upon his native spot, where he is esteemed and beloved.
This was eminently the case with Jonathan. He was a man of superior understanding and skill,
possessed of uncommon presence of mind in difficulties and dangers, and at Hopedale considered
as the principal person, or chief of his nation. But he was now ready to forsake all, and to
go and reside at OKKAK, among strangers, having no authority or pre-eminence, and to undertake
a voyage of unknown length and peril, from whence he could not be sure of a safe or speedy
return, before the ice might set in, and confine him upon an unknown shore, during the whole
of a second winter. There was, however, one consideration which outweighed every other in his
mind, and made him, according to his own declaration, forget all difficulties and dangers.
He hoped that the proposed voyage to visit his countrymen in the north would, in time, be a
means of their becoming acquainted with the gospel of Christ, and partakers of the same blessings
which he now enjoyed. This made him willing to accept of the call without any hesitation. Nor
did he ever, during the whole voyage, forsake that generous principle, by which he was at first
influenced, but his cheerful, firm, and faithful conduct proved, under all circumstances, most
honourable to the character of a true convert to Christianity.

Brother KOHLMEISTER being, after seventeen years residence in Labrador, complete master of
the Esquimaux language, and deservedly beloved and respected both by Christians and heathens,
and possessing an invincible zeal to promote their temporal and spiritual welfare, was a man
eminently qualified to undertake the commission, and to conciliate the affections of unknown
heathen. He had also previously made himself acquainted with the use of the quadrant, and with
other branches of science, useful on such an occasion.

Brother KMOCH, his companion, joined to other essential qualifications, great cheerfulness
and intrepidity.

All the parties having met at Okkak, in the autumn of 1810, the winter was partly spent in
preparations for the intended expedition, and Jonathan's boat put into the best possible state
of repair.

CHAPTER I.

  _Outfit. Opinions of the Esquimaux respecting the Voyage.
  Description of the Company. Departure from Okkak. Arrival at
  Nungorome._

June 16, 1811.--The ice began to loosen in the bay of OKKAK, and to drive out to sea. On the
17th, the bay was quite cleared of it; but on the 18th, it returned, and seemed to preclude
all possibility of setting out so soon as we intended. On the 19th, however, it left us entirely.

20th. We were employed in hauling the boat to the edge of the water, and being floated by the
tide, she came to anchor at six, P.M. She had been purchased by Jonathan, at Chateau-bay, and
was about 45 feet long, twelve broad, and five deep, with two masts. We had furnished her with
a complete deck, and divided her into three parts. The centre was our own cabin, into which
all our baggage was stowed: the two other divisions were occupied by the Esquimaux. A small
boat, brought from Lewis, was taken in tow.

21st. We began to ship our provision and baggage: viz. six cwt. of ship's biscuit, sixteen
bushels of pease, one cwt. of salt pork and best beef, (of which but a small portion was consumed,
as we were generally well supplied with fresh provisions, procured by shooting), a firkin of
butter, half cwt. of captain's biscuit, one cwt. of flour, two small barrels of gunpowder,
one cwt. of large and small shot, half cwt. of tobacco, two eighteen-gallon barrels of ale,
a few bottles of brandy, eighteen pounds of coffee, which was all consumed, coffee and biscuits
being our usual repast; a case containing knives, wire, nails, &c. for barter, if necessary;
kettles and other utensils. Besides that every man had his fowling-piece, we had four muskets
in reserve. After bringing all on board, we had just room enough to sleep in our cabin.

22d, was spent in conferring with our brethren, on various subjects relating to the voyage.

23d. All the Esquimaux met at the chapel, and in the most affectionate manner, and with many
tears, bid us and our company farewell. They were the more affected with grief on this occasion,
as the greatest part of our own Esquimaux thought the voyage impracticable, and expected that
we should all perish in doubling Cape Chudleigh, (Killinek) on account of the violence of the
currents, setting round between the cape, and the many rocks and islands which stretch from
it towards the north. Reports had likewise been circulated of the hostile disposition of the
Esquimaux in the Ungava bay; and it was boldly asserted, that if we even got there alive, we
should never return. An old conjuror, (Angekok), _Atsugarsuk_, had been particularly active
in spreading these reports. We cannot deny but that they occasioned some apprehension in our
own minds, but being fully determined to venture in the name of God, and trusting in His protection,
we were thankful that they failed to produce the intended effect on Jonathan, our guide, and
on the other Esquimaux, who were to go with us, and who all remained firm.

When Jonathan was told that the Ungava Esquimaux would kill him, he generally answered: "Well,
we will try, and shall know better when we get there:" and once, conversing with us on the
subject, expressed himself thus: "When I hear people talking about the danger of being killed,
I think: Jesus went to death out of love to us, what great matter would it be, if we were to
be put to death in His service, should that be His good pleasure concerning us."

24th. Having commended ourselves in prayer to the grace and protecting care of God our Saviour,
and to the kind remembrance of our dear fellow missionaries, we set sail at two P.M.

Our company consisted of four Esquimaux families: 1. _Jonathan_, and his wife _Sybilla_, both
between fifty and sixty years old. He was esteemed one of the most skilful commanders on the
whole coast of Labrador, and for many years has shown himself both able and willing to serve
the missionaries in a variety of ways. The boat was his own property, and we considered him
as the captain of the expedition. 2. _Jonas_, Jonathan's son, and his wife _Agnes_, about thirty
years of age, both intelligent, clever Esquimaux; they had their five children with them; _Sophia_,
twelve years old, _Susanna_, _Jonathan_, _Thamar_, and _Sybilla_, the youngest but half a year
old. 3. _Paul_, and his wife _Mary_, very agreeable, sensible people, about twenty years of
age. Paul is Jonathan's cousin, and a man of a very warm temper. In activity and skill, he
was next to Jonathan. 4. _David_, and his mother _Rachel_, the first a hopeful young man of
about twenty, and the latter a good-natured old woman, who had the care of our clothes and
linen, and kept them clean and in good order. Besides these four families, we took with us
a boy, _Okkiksuk_, an orphan, about sixteen, whom Jonathan had adopted, and who promised to
reward the kindness of his guardian by his good behaviour. He was always ready to render us
every service in his power.

We were attended on the voyage by a skin-boat (or woman's boat) in which were _Thukkekina_
and his wife, and their adopted child _Mammak_, a boy twelve years old. Their age is about
forty. The skin-boat was intended as a refuge, in case of any accident happening to our own
boat, and was useful in landing, as we never brought the large boat close in shore. The first
four families belong to Hopedale, Thukkekina and his wife to Okkak. They considered it as a
great favour conferred on them to be permitted to accompany us. _Jonas_ and his family occupied
the after-part, and the rest the fore-part of the boat. The wind was moderate, and due west.
We lost sight of our habitations in about half an hour, behind the N.E. point of the island
Okkak, called Sungolik.

At three, passed Cape Uivak, a cape on the continent, forming a moderately high headland, and
the nearest place to Okkak, where Esquimaux spend the winter. Two or three winter-houses were
standing.

The wind failing, we cast off the skin-boat, which rowed merrily a-head. Before us, between
the islands to the east and the continent, we saw much drift-ice, and it required attention
to avoid the large shoals, the wind coming round to the N.W. We cast anchor at NUNGOROME, a
cove about ten English miles from Okkak, where we found several of our Esquimaux, who had here
their summer-station. Several had come from Naujasiorvik and other places, on purpose to meet
us, and once more to express their affection and best wishes for our safe voyage and return.
Late in the evening, we met on a green spot, where Brother Kohlmeister delivered a short discourse
and prayer, after which we retired to sleep on board the boat.

CHAPTER II.

  _Departure from Nungorome Cove. Account of Solomon. Drift-ice.
  Cape Mugford. Waterfalls from the Kaumayok Mountains. Fruitless
  attempt to get out of the Ikkerasak, or Straits._

Nungorome is a cove on the south side of the Island Pacharvik. Between this island the main
land is a narrow strait, so shallow that no whales can pass. The Esquimaux stretch their nets
across, to catch seals, seeking shelter in it when the wind sets in from the open sea. They
can only be taken in the night, and the greater part of those which frequent this coast are
of the _Kairolik_ kind, a middle-sized animal, and of the _Ugsuk_, the largest species of the
seal tribe, weighing sometimes from five to six cwt.

The Esquimaux belonging to our congregation, who were at present stationed here, in tents,
were _Moses_, _Samuel_, _Thomas_, _Isaac_, _Bammiuk_, and their families. _Solomon_, who has
left our communion, was also here. He had formerly been a communicant member of Okkak congregation,
but could not resist the temptation of going to the north to feast with the heathen Esquimaux,
whenever they had caught a live, or found a dead whale. On such occasions he was seduced to
commit many irregularities and sins, but always returned to us with a show of great contrition
and repentance. After many relapses, he was informed, that this would do no longer, but that
if he went again to these heathenish feasts, he would be excluded. He is a sensible, well-disposed
man, and perceived the justice of the sentence; but his love of that species of amusement overcame
all his good resolutions. He not only went again, but took also another wife; a step which,
of course, excluded him from our fellowship. Yet he is very desirous that his children may
receive a Christian education, and remain faithful to the precepts of the gospel.

25th. Brother Kmoch rose at half past one in the morning, and suffering the rest to sleep on,
got breakfast ready; he then fired his piece, by which Brother Kohlmeister and all the Esquimaux,
young and old, were suddenly roused from their slumbers. Not one, however, regretted the unexpected
interruption to their pleasant dreams, on beholding the sea quite free from ice, with a fine
morning and fair wind; but after yawning, stretching, and shaking themselves as usual, the
Esquimaux with great good humour got ready, and we set sail at half past three. Passed Pacharvik
Island at four. Bammiuk and Solomon accompanied us as far as the North Ikkerasak (the Esquimaux
name for a strait) between Cape Mugford Island, in 58° N. latitude, and the mountains of Kaumayok.
Their being in company retarded our progress, but in the sequel proved no disadvantage.

About nine, we entered the straits, and perceiving at a distance much drift-ice a-head, cast
anchor, and Brother Kmoch and Jonas landed on Cape Mugford Island. An Esquimaux, called _Niakungetok_,
accompanied them to the top of an eminence, from whence the outer opening of the Ikkerasak
was seen. They perceived the ice driving into it from the sea in such quantities as to threaten
to close it up. Cape Mugford is an high island, extending far into the ocean, and the northern
land-mark in steering for Okkak, _Kiglapeit_ promontory bearing south, and the Saddle-island
appearing right before the entrance of the bay. On their return to the boat, the wind veered
to the north, and we steered for a dwelling-place of the Esquimaux, about twenty miles from
Okkak, called _Ukkuararsuk_. To our great joy the ice began now to drive out again to sea,
and we resolved to go with it. A gentle S.W. wind brought us to the place, where we had before
anchored, but we were now beset with large fields of ice, among which we tacked, till we had
nearly cleared the straits, when the great quantity of surrounding ice, pressing upon us, prevented
our making further attempts, and we, were compelled to work our way back with oars and boat-hooks.

On Cape Mugford island we now discovered more Esquimaux, who by signs directed our course towards
a convenient harbour, near their dwellings, which we reached in safety.

The Esquimaux pitched their tents on shore, but we slept on board.

The situation of this place is remarkably beautiful. The strait is about an English mile broad,
and four or five in length. Both shores are lined with precipitous rocks, which in many places
rise to a tremendous height, particularly on the Kaumayok side, from whence several waterfalls
rush into the sea, with a roar, which quite fills the air. The singular appearance of these
cataracts is greatly increased when illuminated by the rising sun, the spray, exhibiting the
most beautiful prismatic colours. Below them huge masses of ice are formed, which seem to lean
against the sides of the rocks, and to be continually increasing during the winter, but when
melted by the power of a summer's sun, and disengaged by their weight, are carried off by the
tides, and help to form floating ice-mountains. The coast lies S.W. by N.E.

26th. Being detained here by the state of the ice, and the weather fine and warm, Brother Kmoch
and Ogiksuk rowed across the straits to the nearest great cataract, and were able, notwithstanding
the steepness of the ascent, to get pretty close to it. It falls fifty or sixty feet perpendicular,
and the noise is terrible. The spray ascending from it, like the steam of a huge cauldron,
wetted the travellers completely. They amused themselves some time by rolling large stones
into the fall, which by its force were carried along towards the sea, down the sloping torrent
below. Our people meanwhile caught three seals, and made a hearty meal, of which we also partook,
hunger, on this occasion, overcoming our dislike to seal's flesh. A sallad of scurvy-grass
was made for supper.

27th. We left this harbour about four A.M. with a favourable wind at West, but as it soon died
away, we took to our oars, and reached the north point of Kaumayok, at the northern extremity
of the strait. By an observation taken by Brother Kohlmeister, this point is situated in 57°
59' N. latitude. Though calm, there was a great swell from the sea, and the rolling of the
boat affected our brave captain not a little, to the diversion of the other Esquimaux. About
two P.M. the wind shifted to the N.W. By tacking we got to Kupperlik, about the middle of Kaumayok,
but having the skin-boat in tow, could not weather the point, and were at length obliged to
return to our former anchorage in the strait.

28th. The wind being North we could not proceed. We therefore ascended the mountain of Cape
Mugford. It is a barren rock, though here and there a solitary plant or a tuft of moss clings
to its steep sides, and is difficult of access. The numerous waterfalls on the Kaumayok, which
still rose above us, were full in view, and we now discovered several small lakes which supply
them. Some of them fall from a great height perpendicularly into the sea.

We could here discern the island of Okkak, to the S.W. to the East, the boundless ocean, and
to the N.E. three high, barren, and steep islands, called Nennoktuts by the Esquimaux, (White
mountains.)

CHAPTER III.

  _Quit the Ikkerasak. Account of the Kaumayok Mountains, and of
  Kangertluksoak. Public Worship on Sunday. Saeglek and its
  Inhabitants described. The Missionaries visit the Esquimaux at
  Kikkertarsoak._

June 29th.--We rose soon after two o'clock, and rowed out of the Ikkerasak, with a fair wind.
The sea was perfectly calm and smooth. Brother Kmoch rowed in the small boat along the foot
of the mountains of Kaumayok, sometimes going on shore, while the large boat was making but
little way, keeping out at some distance, to avoid the rocks. The outline of this chain of
mountains exhibits the most fanciful figures. At various points, the rocks descend abruptly
into the sea, presenting horrid precipices. The strand is covered with a black sand. Statues,
single or in groups, filled gables, roofs, niches, interstices of columns, staircases in the
temples, theatres, amphitheatres, basilicas, public baths, bridges, arches, portals, and viaducts.
. . . Triumphal arches generally had at their summits equestrian figures, trophies, chariots of
four or six horses, driven by figures of victory. Reliefs and medallions bedecked the frieze,
and reliefs or paintings the walls; ceilings were gay with stucco or coloured work, and the
floors with glittering mosaics.
All the architectural framework, supports, thresholds, lintels, mouldings, windows, and even
gutters were overloaded with decorative figures."
It was above all in plastic art that the contemporary world was
enormously rich.

Not only could no public building dispense with such decorations as those above mentioned; no
private house of the least pretensions was without its statues, busts, statuettes, carved
reliefs, and stucco-work.
Never was statuary in marble or bronze so plentiful in every part
of the empire, in public squares, or in the houses of representative
people--in reception-hall, peristyle court, garden, or colonnade.

Portrait statues in the largest towns were to be counted by hundreds, and sometimes by thousands.
Men distinguished in war, in letters, in public life, and in local benefactions were as regularly
commemorated by statues or busts as they are in modern times by painted portraits.
Sometimes--unlike the modern portraits of course--these were paid for by the recipient of the
compliment.

In the comparatively unimportant Forum of Pompeii there stood five colossal statues, between
seventy and eighty life-size equestrian statues, and as many standing figures, while the public
buildings surrounding this open space contained their dozen or twenty each. As has been said
already, most of the best work in sculpture--apart from these bronze and marble portraits of
contemporaries--was reproduction of Grecian masterpieces dating from the time of Pheidias
onward. Particularly did the Roman affect the more elaborate work of the period of the later
"Macedonian" kings. Where the actual work was not exactly copied it at least supplied the
main conception or motive. It followed naturally that there would be in existence many copies
of the same piece, and, in procuring these, both the public and the householder would feel relieved
of any danger of betraying the wrong taste. The workshops or studios of Greek artists turned
out large numbers of a given masterpiece--a Faun, a Venus, or a Discobolus--at prices from £50
or so upwards. It followed also that there were numerous imitations passed off as originals, and
many a wealthy man boasted of possessing an "original" or a genuine "old master"--a Praxiteles or a
Lysippus--when he owned but a clever reproduction. The same remark applies, not only to the statues,
but to the genre-groups and animal forms of which such fine examples can be seen in the
Vatican Museum, and also to silver cups by "Mentor" or to bronzes
of Corinth.

Petronius, the coarse but witty "arbiter of taste" under Nero, mocks at the vulgar _nouveau
riche_ who imagined that the Corinthian bronzes were the work of
an artist named Corinthus.

[Illustration: FIG. 117.--WALL-PAINTING. (Woman with Tablets.)]
[Illustration: FIG. 118.--WALL-PAINTING FROM HERCULANEUM. (Women playing with Knuckle-Bones.)]

Next to sculpture came painting, and in this art Romans themselves
appear to have often acquired a technical skill which rivalled that
of the Greeks.

There is also plenty of evidence that among the pictorial artists there were no few women. For
us practically the only painting of the time which has been preserved is that upon the walls of
private houses, and it is probable that we see some of the worst
specimens of the kind as well as some of a high order of excellence.

It is not difficult to distinguish between the truly artistic design and colouring of wall-pictures
in the House of Vettii or of the "Tragic Poet" and the crude journeyman work in sundry other
Pompeian houses which must have belonged to anything but connoisseurs. Paintings, it must
be remembered, were the ancient wall-papers, as well as the ancient pictures. Here, as in
sculpture, we find the same or similar motives and groupings
repeated in a way which shows that the painter--or rather the
collaborating painters--must have been reproducing or adapting an
original which was particularly admired or had obtained a fashionable
vogue.

The wall-pictures, done in fresco or distemper and in various dimensions, fall into four main
classes. There are landscapes, from a pretty realistic garden scene to a fantastic stretch
of sea and land diversified with woods, rocks, figures, and buildings. There are subjects
from mythology and from poetical "history" or legend, chiefly representing "moments of dramatic
interest."

There are genre-pictures, such as those of the Cupids acting as goldsmiths, oil-dealers, or
wine-merchants. Finally there are pictures of still-life--of fishes, birds, fruits, and
other objects--often admirable in their kind. Serving as frame or setting to many of the scenes
there are architectural paintings--sometimes in complicated but highly skilful perspective,
but often extremely unreal and confusing in conception--representing
columns and pediments of buildings.

It must here suffice to offer one or two characteristic examples out of the multitude of wall-paintings
which have been found (see also Figs. 43, 44).

Though Romans themselves, and even persons of standing, sometimes dabbled in the fine arts,
it is unquestionable that they commonly regarded the professional
artist as only a superior tradesman.

They admired his skill, but rendered little esteem to the man. A Roman knight or a Roman lady
might occasionally paint for pleasure; Nero himself might model a figure or handle a brush; but
so soon as art ceased to be dilettante and became a calling, so soon as its work was produced for
payment, the artist ranked with other hirelings, however superior
he might be in kind.

Seneca expresses an open contempt, although he is perhaps, here as elsewhere, judging by a
standard more severe than that of his contemporaries in general. To some extent this attitude is
explained by the very abundance of objects of art, and by the immense number of artists, now
nameless, belonging to the period; it is also to some extent excused by the fact that the
craftsmanship, however consummate, was not at this period accompanied by the originality of
the great Greek times from which it borrowed. Much of the work--particularly perhaps in painting
and metal-chasing--was done by slaves. Apart from this consideration, the studios were so
numerous and taught so well, that there must have been thousands of persons working either alone
or co-operatively, whose position, however excellent the performance, became analogous to
that of a house-decorator.

On a wall to be painted in fresco a number of painters would be employed together. Throughout
the Roman world, wherever works of art were wanted, the professional would travel, often with
his assistants, and take up a contract. In modern parlance, the communities requiring some
monument of art "called for tenders" and were prone to accept the lowest.

Whatever abundance of art the Roman world cultivated and possessed;
however indispensable to a public place was a wealth of buildings
with lavish decoration of sculptured pillars, of statues, or of
triumphal arches; however necessary to a private house were originals,
supposed originals, and copies in the way of statuary, paintings,
bronzes, mosaics, and other means of artistic adornment; it is very
doubtful whether any large number of Romans entertained that
spontaneous enjoyment of the beauty of art which is known as genuine
"artistic feeling."

In their literature we look in vain for any expression of enthusiasm on the subject. There are
many references to works of art, but none which possess any intense glow of warmth. Doubtless
art was so abundant that, as has already been said in reference to the appreciation of natural
beauty, the absence of "gush" need not indicate absence of real enjoyment. Enjoyment there was,
but it was apparently for the most part the enjoyment either of the collector or of the man who
realises that an appreciation of art demands a large place in culture, and who is determined
to be as well supplied and as well informed as his neighbour, while
his judgment of a piece of work, though far from unintelligent, and
often excellent in regard to principles of design and technical
execution, is mainly the result of a deliberate training and cult,
and is in consequence somewhat chill and detached.

[Illustration: FIG. 119.--LYRE AND HARP.]
Of music the Romans were passionately fond, but the music itself
was of a description which perhaps would hardly commend itself to
modern notions, particularly those of northern Europe.

The instruments in use were chiefly the harp, the lyre, and the flageolet (or flute played with
a mouthpiece). To these we may add for processions the straight trumpet and the curved horn,
and, for more orgiastic occasions or celebrations, the panpipes, cymbals, and tambourine or
kettledrum. Performers from the East played upon certain stringed instruments not greatly
differing from the lyre and harp of Greece and Italy. Women from Cadiz used the castagnettes.

Hydraulic organs with pipes and keys were coming into vogue, and the bagpipes were also
sufficiently familiar. In the use of all these instruments the ancients knew nothing of the
harmonisation of parts; to them harmony and concerto implied no more than unison, or a
difference of octaves.
Whatever emotions may have been evoked by the music so produced, it cannot be imagined that
they were of the intensity or subtlety of which the modern art and instruments are capable.

Apart from the professionals, many Roman youths and the majority of Roman girls learned both to play
and Sing, the instrument most affected being the harp, and the teacher of harp-playing being
held in the highest esteem and receiving the highest emoluments. Sacrifices were regularly
accompanied by the flageolet; processions by this and the trumpet; the rites of Bacchus by pipes,
tambourines, and cymbals; performances in the theatre by an immense orchestra of various
instruments; the more elaborate dinners by flute, harp, concerto of the two, singing, and such
coarser and more exciting performances as were to the taste of the host or his company. The
greatest houses kept their own choir and orchestra of slaves; the less wealthy hired musicians as they
needed them. As for the Romans themselves, certain religious ceremonies called for singing of
boys and girls in chorus; and in a purely domestic way the women of the house played on the
harp and sang.

Where there was singing, the words dominated the music and not the contrary, but snatches from recent
popular pieces were sung and hummed in the streets for the sake
of their taking air, just as they are in modern times.

We cannot conceive of any Roman festivity without abundance of music.

  When in spring at Baiae on the Bay of Naples the holiday
  frequenters of that resort were rowed about the Lucrine Lake in
  their flower-bedecked gondolas or boats with coloured sails, the
musicians were no less in evidence than they are now at every
opportunity on the waters of the same bay or in the evening on the
Grand Canal at Venice.

In the truly Greek portion of the empire music, though no more advanced in method, was for the
most part of a finer and severer kind; but at Alexandria--where it amounted to a mania--the
influence of the native Egyptian style, blent with the more passionate among the Greek modes,
had produced a music extremely exciting and highly demoralising.

On the whole, it may reasonably be held that music played at least as important a part both in the
houses and the public entertainments of the ancient Romans as it plays in modern Italy.
The artists were as carefully trained, the audiences as critical or as receptive, the personal
affectations of the musicians as characteristic, and their effect on emotional admirers of
the opposite sex as great, as they are at the present day. The difference between the two
ages consists in the nature of the music itself, and in the instruments through which it
is respectively delivered; and in these respects the advantage is
entirely with the modern world.

CHAPTER XXIII
THE LAST SCENE OF ALL--BURIAL AND TOMBS
Whatever conceptions may have been entertained as to existence beyond the grave, there was no doubt
in the Roman mind as to the claim of the dead to a proper burial and a worthy monument.
It had once on a time been a matter of universal belief that the spirit which had departed from
an unburied corpse could find no admittance to the company in the realms of Hades. It could
not join "the majority" below. Originally no doubt the notion was simply that, as the body
had not been consigned to the earth, the spirit also remained homeless above ground. Gradually
this fancy shifted to the notion that, through neglect of burial, the dead man was dishonoured--he
had no friends--and that his spirit was thereby disgraced and unworthy of reception by the
powers beneath. It must therefore remain shivering on the near side of the river across which
the grim Charon ferried the more fortunate souls. Even when the body had been decently
buried, the spirit, though received into the gloomy realm, called for continued respect on the
part of its friends on earth. Unless it received its periodical honours and was commemorated by
a fitting sepulchre, it would meet with slights from other ghosts and would feel its position
keenly. Naturally it would then do its best, by some form of haunting, to punish the living
for their disregard and forgetfulness. From such considerations there arose in very ancient
days in Italy, as in Greece, a great anxiety to perform scrupulously "the dues" of the defunct.

Even if the body could not be found, it was obligatory to perform
the obsequies and to build a cenotaph.

If a stranger came across a dead body he must not pass it by without
throwing at least three handfuls of dust or earth upon it and bidding
it "Farewell."

Though the burial customs still employed sprang from old fancies like these, we are not to suppose
that such notions were in full life in the Roman world of our period. Poets might play with
them, and some ignorant folk might still vaguely entertain them. The mere belief in ghosts was
doubtless general, and even the learned argued the question of their existence. Here are parts
of another letter culled from Pliny already several times quoted. He writes to his friend Sura:
"I should very much like to know whether you think that apparitions actually exist, with a real shape
of their own and a kind of supernatural power, or that it is only our fear which gives an
embodiment to vain fancies. My own inclination is to believe in them, and chiefly because of
an experience which, I am told, befell Curtius Rufus."

He then speaks of a phantom form which prophesied that person's fortune. "Another occurrence,
quite as wonderful and still more terrifying, I will relate as I was told it. There was at
Athens a house which was roomy and commodious, but which bore an ill-name and was plague-stricken.
In the silence of the night there was heard a sound of iron.
We were detained
here, by the ice, from the 3d to the 15th, and our faith and patience were frequently put to
the trial. Meanwhile we found much pleasure in walking up the declivities of the hills, and
into the fine green and flowery vallies around us.

5th. We went up the western extremity of the bay, but found nothing worth notice. Here the
rocks appeared to be of a species of freestone.

6th. In the evening we met in Jonathan's tent. Brother Kohlmeister addressed the company, and
reminded them, that to-day the holy communion would be celebrated in our congregations, which
we could not do in this place, under present circumstances. Then kneeling down, he offered
up a fervent prayer, entreating the Lord not to forget us in this wilderness, but to give us
to feel His all-reviving presence, and to feed our hungry and thirsty souls, out of the fulness
of His grace. A comfortable sense of His love and peace filled all our hearts on this occasion.

In the evening, Paul began to read out of the Harmony of the four Evangelists, which we shall
continue as often as circumstances will admit of it. Jonathan and Jonas generally conduct the
daily morning and evening worship.

7th. We were so hard pressed by the ice driving towards us, that we were obliged in part to
unload the boat, to be able to bring it into a safer situation in shallow water; and took our
turns, three relieving three, to watch and guard off the larger shoals with boat-hooks, by
day and night. We were glad to have reached a place, sheltered on all sides from the wind.

8th. Our people went out to look for reindeer, and no prospect of our proceeding to sea appearing,
they resolved to stay out all night.

9th. Jonas returned and reported, that they had seen reindeer, but were not able to shoot any.
Paul and Thukkekina went to-day to the western mountains, and staid over night.

10th. Brother Kmoch went to the westward to look for birds. He saw a large flight of sea-fowl,
but they were extremely shy, and would not permit him to get near them. From the hills around
us, we perceived that the entrance into the bay was completely blocked up with ice; and towards
the sea, nothing but one continued field of ice appeared. We sighed and prayed to the Lord
to help us in this time of need. Jonas went out in his kayak, and shot an _ugsuk_, not far
from our tent. Towards evening, we saw a fire made by our reindeer-hunters, at the western
extremity of the bay, and they fired their pieces to give us notice, that they had got some
game, and that we should fetch it with the small boat.

Okkiksuk therefore went, and found them completely overcome with fatigue, having dragged their
game, across the mountains for a considerable distance. The Esquimaux are indeed able to carry
burdens up and down hill, under which most Europeans would sink, but when they kill a deer
far inland, it is hard-earned food, by the trouble of carrying it home. Paul had shot two reindeer,
of which we received a portion. Brother Kohlmeister had been on the other side of the bay,
and returned with a large parcel of plants and flowers, the examination of which afforded him
much amusement.

The Esquimaux now boiled a large kettle full of seal's flesh, of which we were invited to partake.
This we did, and thought it a very palatable mess, particularly as we had tasted no fresh meat
since we had left the North Ikkerasak. The prejudice of the Europeans against seal's flesh,
consists mostly in imagination. The dirty kettle in which the Esquimaux boil it, is indeed
not calculated to excite an appetite, but the meat, when eaten fresh, tastes much like beef;
when cold, it acquires an oily taste; nor durst a person, not accustomed to it from his childhood,
make a practice of eating it, as it is of a very heating nature, and would soon bring on serious
disorders. It generally prevents sleep, if eaten at supper.

12th. The wind became West, and cleared the bay of the ice. Brother Kmoch and Jonathan went
to the opposite shore and found winter-houses, one of which had been inhabited last winter;
two others were in ruins. They climbed the highest eminence towards Nachvak, but saw nothing
but drift-ice, covering the sea, with but few spots of open water, to the north.

13th. It blew hard from the West. David and Okkiksuk crossed the bay to explore the state of
the ice from the hills. In the evening they returned with intelligence, that the sea was cleared
of ice to the northward. David had caught a netsek, (a small species of seal), and we had taken
a good draught of trout in the net before our tent.

14th. Jonathan roused us at four in the morning, the wind being in our favour, and we immediately
made preparations to depart. After breakfast, as we were praying the Litany, a sudden storm
arose. We were assembled in Jonathan's tent, and the stones and pegs, with which it had been
fastened down to the ground, being already removed, the tent-skins were soon blown about our
heads by the violence of the wind, and we were now obliged patiently to wait till the storm
abated. In the midst of our deliberations, accompanied with expressions of our disappointment,
Thukkekina gravely observed, that we might very likely get away this summer, and need not be
dismayed. Towards evening, it fell calm, and the musquitoes teazed us unmercifully. We supped
on fresh salmon, filled our tents with smoke, to keep off our winged tormentors, shut ourselves
in, and forgot our grievances and Thukkekina's consolations in sound sleep.

15th. In the morning at three o'clock, we took a final leave of Nullatartok bay, and got under
way with a favourable, though rather boisterous wind at S.W. having been detained here for
twelve days by the ice. After about an hour's sail, we were near the entrance of the inlet,
when a sudden gust from the mountains carried away our after-top-mast, with sail and tackle.
It fell with great noise on the deck, and into the sea. By God's mercy no one was hurt, and
we were more particularly thankful, that of the five children on board, none were just then
on deck.

It once happened, that the main-yard fell down, and but narrowly missed striking two children,
who with a third were sitting and playing together. They must inevitably have lost their lives,
had it fallen upon them. We praised God for their preservation during the whole voyage. By
the above-mentioned disaster, we were obliged to run into a small cove, where we repaired the
mast with all speed, and proceeded with a gentle wind towards Nachvak. A calm ensued, and as
there is no anchorage between Nullatartok and Nachvak, we rowed all night, and felt the advantage
of the great length of days, at this season of the year.

16th. The view we had of the magnificent mountains of Nachvak, especially about sun-rise, afforded
us and our Esquimaux great gratification. Their south-east extremity much resembles Saddle
island near Okkak, being high, steep, and of singular shape. These mountains in general are
not unlike those of Kaumayok for picturesque outline. In one place, tremendous precipices form
a vast amphitheatre, surmounted by a ledge of green sod, which seemed to be the resort of an
immense number of sea-gulls and other fowls, never interrupted by the intrusion of man. They
flew with loud screams backwards and forwards over our heads, as if to warn off such unwelcome
visitors. In another place, a narrow chasm opens into the mountain, widening into a lagoon,
the surrounding rocks resembling the ruins of a large Gothic building, with the green ocean
for its pavement, and the sky for its dome. The weather being fine, and the sun cheering us
with his bright rays, after a cold and sleepless night, we seemed to acquire new vigour, by
the contemplation of the grand features of nature around us. We now perceived some Esquimaux
with a woman's boat, in a small bay, preparing to steer for Nachvak. They fired their pieces,
and called to us to join them, as they had discovered a stranded whale. Going on shore to survey
the remains of this huge animal, we found it by no means a pleasant sight. It lay upon the
rocks, occupying a space about thirty feet in diameter, but was much shattered, and in a decaying
state. Our people, however, cut off a quantity of blubber from its lips. The greater part of
the blubber of this fish was lost, as the Esquimaux had no means of conveying it to Okkak.

The Esquimaux stationed here showed great willingness to assist us; and as our party was much
fatigued with rowing all night, they towed us into Nachvak, where we arrived about 2 P.M. Old
Kayaluk and a young man, Parnguna, and his wife, were here. The latter called on Brother Kohlmeister,
and thanked him for having saved her life. He had forgotten that he had once given her medicine
at Okkak in a dangerous illness, but her gratitude was still unbounded.

CHAPTER V.

  _Reception at Nachvak. Description of the bay. The Esquimaux
  manner of spearing salmon and trout. Christian deportment of
  the Okkak and Hopedale Esquimaux. Jonas's address to the
  Heathen. Love of music general among these Indians. Departure
  from Nachvak. Danger in doubling the North Cape. Arrival at
  Sangmiyok bay._

July 16th.--After two or three hours sleep in our cabin, we went on shore. The Esquimaux, who
had here a temporary station, about fifty in number, received us with every mark of attention.
Loud shouts of joy resounded from all quarters, and muskets were fired in every direction.
They could scarcely wait with patience for our landing, and when we pitched our tent, were
all eager to assist; thus we were soon at home among them. Seven tents were standing on the
strand, and we found the people here differing much in their manners from the people at Saeglek.
Their behaviour was modest and rather bashful, nor were we assailed by beggars and importunate
intruders, as at the latter place, where beggary seemed quite the fashion, and proved very
troublesome to us. But we had no instance of stealing. Thieves are considered by the Esquimaux
in general with abhorrence, and with a thief no one is willing to trade. We have discovered,
however, that that propensity is not altogether wanting in the northern Esquimaux, who, now
and then, if they think that they can do it without detection, will make a little free with
their neighbour's property.

The Esquimaux not only gave us a most hearty welcome, but attended our morning and evening
prayers with great silence and apparent devotion. Indeed, to our great surprise, they behaved
altogether with uncommon decorum and regularity during our stay.

17th. Being detained with drift-ice at the mouth of the bay, we pitched our tent on shore.
We examined the bay more minutely. It extends to the West to a considerable depth, and is not
protected by any islands, except a few rocks, at some distance in the sea. The surrounding
mountains are very high, steep, and barren, and verdure is found only in the vallies. Here
the _arnica montana_, which the Missionaries have found of great use among the Esquimaux, grows
in great abundance. Salmon-trout are caught in every creek and inlet.

Like the salmon, they remain in the rivers and fresh-water lakes during the winter, and return
to the sea in spring. The Esquimaux about Okkak and Saeglek, catch them in winter under the
ice by spearing. For this purpose, they make two holes in the ice, about eight inches in diameter,
and six feet asunder, in a direction from north to south. The northern hole they screen from
the sun, by a bank of snow about four feet in height, raised in a semicircle round its southern
edge, and form another similar bank on the north-side of the southern hole, sloped in such
a manner as to reflect the rays of the sun into it. The Esquimaux then lies down, with his
face close to the northern aperture, beneath which the water is strongly illuminated by the
sunbeams entering at the southern. In his left hand he holds a red string, with which he plays
in the water, to allure the fish, and in his right a spear, ready to strike them as they approach.
In this manner they soon take as many as they want.

The salmon-trout on this coast are from twelve to eighteen inches long, and in August and September
so fat, that the Esquimaux collect from them a sufficient quantity of oil for their lamps.
The immense abundance of these fish on all parts of the coast, would almost at any time save
the Esquimaux from starving with hunger; but as seals furnish them both with food and clothing,
it is of most consequence to them to attend to this branch of supply. At Hopedale and Nain,
however, salmon-trout are caught only in the summer.

We were much pleased with the behaviour of our own Esquimaux, during their stay at Nachvak.
In every respect they conducted themselves, in word and deed, as true Christian people. Their
conversation with their heathen countrymen, was free and unreserved, and "to the use of edifying."
Jonathan and Jonas in particular, gave us great satisfaction.

The people having assembled in Jonathan's tent, those who had no room in it, standing without
and listening with great order and stillness, Brother Kohlmeister addressed them, explaining
the aim of our voyage; that we were going, out of love to their nation, to the northern Esquimaux,
and to those of Ungava bay, to make known to them the love of God our Saviour; and, by the
gospel, to point out to them the way to obtain life everlasting. We knew that they were heathen,
who, being ignorant of the way to God, were in bondage to the devil, and would be lost for
ever, unless God had mercy upon them and sent them his word, to lead them to Jesus Christ their
only Saviour, who shed His blood, and died on the cross to redeem their souls.

They received the discourses and exhortations of the Missionary with reverential attention,
but those of their own countrymen, with still greater eagerness, and we hope not without benefit.
Jonas once addressed them thus; "We were but lately as ignorant as you are now: we were long
unable to understand the comfortable words of the gospel: we had neither ears to hear, nor
hearts to receive them, till Jesus, by his power, opened our hearts and ears. Now we know what
Jesus has done for us, and how great the happiness of those souls is, who come unto Him, love
Him as their Saviour, and know, that they shall not be lost, when this life is past. Without
this we live in constant fear of death. You will enjoy the same happiness, if you turn to and
believe in Jesus. We are not surprised that you do not yet understand us. We were once like
you, but now thank Jesus our Redeemer, with tears of joy, that He has revealed Himself unto
us," Thus, with cheerful countenances and great energy, did these Christian Esquimaux praise
and glorify the name of Christ our Saviour, and declare, what he had done for their souls,
exhorting the heathen likewise to believe.

The above address seemed to make a deep impression on the minds of all present. One of their
leaders, or captains, exclaimed with great eagerness, in presence of them all: "I am determined
to be converted to Jesus." His name is _Onalik_. He afterwards called upon Brother Kohlmeister,
and inquired, whether it was the same, to which of the three settlements he removed, as it
was his firm determination to become a true believer. Brother Kohlmeister answered: "That it
was indifferent where he lived, if he were only converted and became a child of God, and an
heir of life eternal." Another, named _Tullugaksoak_, made the same declaration, and added:
"That he would no longer live among the heathen."

Though the very fickle disposition of the heathen Esquimaux, might cause some doubts to arise
in our minds, as to their putting these good resolutions into practice, yet we hope, that the
seed of the word of God, sown in this place, may not have altogether fallen upon barren ground.

In the evening, our people met in Jonathan's tent, and sang hymns. Almost all the inhabitants
were present. They afterwards spent a long time in pleasant and edifying conversation. It may
here be observed, that the Esquimaux delight in singing and music. As to national songs, they
have nothing deserving of that name; and the various collectors of these precious morsels in
our day, would find their labour lost in endeavouring to harmonize the incantations of their
sorcerers and witches, which more resemble the howlings of wolves and growlings of bears, than
any thing human. But though the hymn and psalm-tunes of the Brethren's Church are mostly of
antient construction, and, though rich in harmony, have no airy melodies to make them easily
understood by unmusical ears, yet the Esquimaux soon learn to sing them correctly; and the
voices of the women are remarkably sweet and well-tuned. Brother Kohlmeister having given one
of the children a toy-flute, Paul took it, and immediately picked out the proper stops in playing
several psalm-tunes upon it, as well as the imperfect state of the instrument would admit.
Brother Kmoch having taken a violin with him, the same Esquimaux likewise took it up, and it
was not long before he found out the manner of producing the different notes.

18th. At 8 A.M. Brother Kohlmeister having delivered a farewell-discourse to the Esquimaux,
(during which they were much affected), we took leave of these goodnatured people, and set
sail with a fair and strong West-wind, but met with much drift-ice at the entrance of the bay.
It made less way than our boat, and the wind becoming more violent, we found ourselves in an
unpleasant situation. After tacking all day, and a great part of the night, the ice preventing
our proceeding, and the wind, our returning to our former station, we were obliged to make
for the Eastern point of the bay, where we at length succeeded in gaining a small cove, and
cast anchor.

Our situation was singular; the rocks rose in a semicircle around us, towering perpendicularly
to an amazing height, like an immense wall.

After a few hours stay, two Nachvak Esquimaux joined us, and prevailed on Jonathan to return
to the tents, but we had scarcely reached the centre of the bay, before the violence of the
wind drove us out to sea, and we were compelled to push for the northern promontory, from which
all the ice had now retreated. Under the mountains we found shelter from the wind, which had
by this time risen to a storm. It was late, and as it appeared dangerous to remain here, we
rowed towards the point, but there beheld, with terror, the raging of the sea and dashing of
the waves against the rocks, the spray flying like clouds into the air, and returned into smooth
water, where, however, we were long in finding a place to anchor in. The night was spent quietly
under shelter of the high rocks. They form the base of mountains higher than the _Kiglapeyd_,
rise perpendicularly, in some places impending, with fragments, apparently loose, hanging over
their edge, and forming all kinds of grotesque figures.

19th. At sun-rise we still saw and heard the storm which threatened us with destruction, if
we ventured to double the cape.

At nine the wind abated, and we set sail, got safe round the point, and glided, with a gentle
wind, into a broad, shallow bay, called Sangmiyok, full both of hidden and visible rocks, in
which we cast anchor about five P.M. While Brother Kmoch superintended the concerns of the
kitchen, Brother Kohlmeister and Jonathan went on shore, and to the highest mountain on the
promontory. From the top of this mountain they could plainly discern the four principal headlands
between Cape Mugford and Cape Chudleigh. The former situated in latitude 58° N. the latter
in 61°. Between these are four promontories, in a line from S.E. to N.W. The first is _Uivak_,
at the entrance into Saeglek Bay, outside of which a small island lies, in form of a pyramid
or sugar-loaf. Next follow the two forming Nachvak Bay, another _Uivak_ to the south of _Nennoktok_,
upon which we stood. The fourth is _Kakkeviak_, not far from Killinek, or Cape Chudleigh, in
form of a tent, called in the charts _Blackhead_. _Nennoktok_ is called _False Blackhead_.

CHAPTER VI.

  _Pass Cape Nennoktok. Visit the Esquimaux families at
  Kummaktorvik and Amitok. Description of an Esquimaux travelling
  bed. Mountains seen at Ungava. Netsek seal described. Greenland
  houses. Danger of being shipwrecked near Kakkeviak._

July 20th.--We proceeded with little or no wind, and taking to our oars, doubled the great
Cape of Nennoktok. Here a strong swell from the sea met us, and tossed our boat violently about,
and, having no wind, it drove us nearer to the shore than was perfectly safe. We remained about
an hour in this unpleasant situation, when a breeze sprung up, which carried us out to the
open sea among islands. It now began to rain very hard, and the wind rose. While Brother Kmoch
was assisting the people on deck, Brother Kohlmeister had enough to do below, to keep peace
among the furniture of our cabin, and sometimes found himself defeated in his attempts, pots
and pans, and boxes, and every thing that was not a fixture, tumbling upon him. Several of
our people were in the skin-boat, and the fury of the wind and sea would not permit them to
come to our assistance. The weather also became so thick and foggy between the islands, that
we were unable to see to any distance. Jonathan was therefore glad to have been yesterday on
shore, when from the mountain he discovered the situation of the promontory, the coast, and
the islands before us, and now contrived to steer in the proper direction. We soon found ourselves
in smoother water, and among islands, where a vast number of seals and birds made their appearance.
At six in the evening we reached _Kummaktorvik_, and came to an anchor.

Having landed, Brother Kmoch shot a hare, close to the beach. These creatures are white in
winter, and grey in summer, and in winter so numerous, that though, when roasted, they are
excellent food, we were almost tired of them last year at Okkak.

The rain continuing during the whole of the night and forenoon of the 21st, we found it necessary
by sufficient rest to strengthen ourselves for future watchfulness.

An Esquimaux travelling bed consists of a large bag of reindeer-skin, with the hair turned
inward, covered with seal-skin, the hair turned outward. It is furnished with a broad flap
to cover the mouth, and a strap to fasten down the flap. This bag comprehends the whole apparatus
and furniture of an Esquimaux bed-room. Having undressed, the traveller creeps into it, and
a kind neighbour having shut him up close by fastening the strap, he leaves him to sleep on
till morning, when he helps him out again. In summer the flap is dispensed with. The invention,
however, is of European origin, and a luxury introduced by the Missionaries; for an Esquimaux
lies down in his clothes, without further preparation.

In the morning we landed, and had the usual Sunday's service with our people on shore; after
which Brother Kohlmeister visited the Esquimaux in their tents, and had some religious conversation
with them, to which they seemed to pay attention. Afterwards Kuttaktok, John, Nukkapiak, and
Kajulik, with their wives, came to see us on board. They are the winter inhabitants of this
bay. John was baptized in infancy at Okkak, but afterwards left the settlement, and not only
associates with the heathen Esquimaux, but has even been guilty of murder. All of them, however,
come occasionally to Okkak. They had two tents about four miles from our landing place.

22d. The contrary wind forbidding our departure, Brother Kohlmeister, accompanied by Jonathan,
Jonas, and Thukkekina, walked across the country to the N.W. bay, to return their visit. When
they saw them coming at a distance, they fired their pieces, to direct them to the tents, and
came joyfully to meet the Missionary and his party. Nothing could exceed the cordiality with
which they received them. A kettle was immediately put on the fire to cook salmon-trout, and
all were invited to partake, which was the more readily accepted, as the length of the walk
had created an appetite, the keenness of which overcame all squeamishness. To do these good
people justice, their kettle was rather cleaner than usual, the dogs having licked it well,
and the fish were fresh and well dressed. To honour the Missionary, a box was placed for him
to sit upon, and the fish were served up to each upon a flat stone instead of a plate. After
dinner, Brother Kohlmeister, in acknowledgment for their civility, gave to each of the women
two needles, and a small portion of tobacco to each man, with which they were highly delighted.

All of them being seated, a very lively and unreserved conversation took place concerning the
only way of salvation, through Jesus Christ, and the necessity of conversion. With John and
his mother Mary, Brother Kohlmeister spoke very seriously, and represented to them the danger
of their state, as apostates from the faith; but they seem blinded by Satan, and determined
to persist in their heathenish life. The Esquimaux now offered to convey the party across the
bay in their skin-boat, which was accepted. Almost all of them accompanied the boat, and met
with a very friendly reception from our boat's company. In the evening, after some hymns had
been sung by our people, Jonas addressed them and the heathen Esquimaux in a short, nervous
discourse, on the blessedness of being reconciled unto God.

Kummaktorvik bay runs N.E. and S.W. and is defended by some islands from the sea. It is about
four or five miles long, and surrounded by high mountains, with some pleasant plains at their
foot, covered with verdure. It's distance from Nachvak is about twelve miles. This chain of
mountains, as will be hereafter mentioned, may be seen from Kangertlualuksoak, in Ungava Bay,
which is a collateral proof, that the neck of land, terminated to the N. by Cape Chudleigh,
is of no great width. Both the Nain and Okkak Esquimaux frequently penetrate far enough inland
to find the rivers taking a westerly direction, consequently towards the Ungava country. They
even now and then have reached the woods skirting the estuaries of George and South rivers.

23d. We set sail at sun-rise, but the wind being too high to suffer us to proceed with safety,
we again anchored in a commodious harbour in _Amitok_ island. Our people were here busily employed
in repairing the damaged rigging and sails. Towards evening Jonas caught a seal, to the great
gratification of our party. It was dressed immediately, and we joined them in their repast
with a good appetite.

The _Netsek_ is the only species of seal which remains during the winter under the ice. They
form in it large caverns, in which they bring forth their young, two at a time, in March. More
than one cavern belongs to one seal, that he may, if disturbed in the first, take shelter in
the second. No other kind of seal is caught in winter by the Esquimaux.

24th. Brother Kmoch rose at two, and went on shore to examine the island more minutely. The
morning was beautiful, and the sun rose with great splendour. _Amitok_ lies N.W. from Kummaktorvik,
is of an oblong shape, and stretches out pretty far towards the sea. The hills are of moderate
height, the land is in many places flat, but in general destitute of grass. On the other side
are some ruins of Greenland houses.

The Esquimaux have a tradition, that the Greenlanders came originally from Canada, and settled
on the outermost islands of this coast, but never penetrated into the country, before they
were driven eastward to Greenland. This report gains some credit, from the state in which the
abovementioned ruins are found. They consist in remains of walls and graves, with a low stone
enclosure round the tomb, covered with a slab of the same material. They have been discovered
on islands near Nain, and though sparingly, all along the whole eastern coast, but we saw none
in Ungava bay. The rocks on Amitok contain large masses of a crumbly, semi-transparent garnet,
of a reddish hue. (From some specimens sent out, it rather appears to be a rose red quartz,
or beryllite).

As it appeared as if we should be detained here, Brother Kmoch had made a fire, and was leisurely
cooking a savoury mess of birds for breakfast, when Jonathan returned from the hills, with
intelligence that the wind was abating in violence, and he therefore would proceed. The tent
was struck, and all hurried on board: yet we had long to combat both an unfavourable wind and
a strong current, which compelled us to double the East point of the island, and seek shelter
among some small islands, steering for _Niakungu_ point. From hence we got the first sight
of _Tikkerarsuk_, (the Esquimaux name for a low point stretching from the continent into the
sea), of the island _Aulatzevik_, and the high promontory of _Kakkeviak_. The whole country
to the west of _Niakungu_ is called _Serliarutsit_. It fell calm as we doubled the point, and
we took to our oars, and came to an anchor in an open bay, south of Tikkerarsuk.

25th. At 6 P.M. we got under weigh with a fine S.E. wind, and made for the island of _Aulatzevik_,
which is about the same size as an island of the same name, near Kiglapeyd. The passage between
the island and the main is too shallow for an European boat like ours. The wind rising we sailed
towards Kakkeviak at a great rate. To the right lay a chain of small islands called by the
Esquimaux Pikkiulits, (the habitation of young eider-ducks). Having nearly doubled _Kakkeviak_
cape, we perceived two tents on shore, which occasioned loud rejoicings on board. They belonged
to _Kumiganna_ of _Saeglek_, with his party, who being bound to Killinek, had promised to accompany
us thither. The wind was very high, and the Cape encircled with numerous visible and invisible
rocks, but there was a clear passage to the shore, keeping outside of the breakers. But whether
from the violence of the wind, or from the eagerness with which our trusty captain wished soon
to join his countrymen, he steered right through the midst of them, when suddenly the boat
struck with great violence upon a sunken rock. The shock was so great, that all on board were
thrown down, and every thing tumbled about. Poor Agnes, Jonas's wife, got a severe wound in
her head. We immediately took in all our sails, and after hard labour, succeeded in pushing
the boat off the rock. On examination we found that all was safe, and thanked God, with hearts
filled with humble acknowledgments of His mercy, for preserving us from danger and death. The
boat had struck in such a manner, that the keel, which was new and strong, being constructed
of one solid piece of timber, sustained the whole shock. Had she taken the rock with her bottom,
she would most likely have bilged, or upset, and it is a great question, whether our lives,
but particularly the lives of the little children, could have been saved, the sea running very
high. The skin-boat was thrown right over the rocks on shore, by the violence of the surf.

Kumiganna soon came off in his kayak, and advised us to steer for the land right before us,
where he thought we should find _Uttakiyok_; nor was there any safe anchorage in this place.
We therefore took a young Esquimaux on board as pilot, and steered between the main land and
the islands, for _Oppernavik_, twenty English miles off. Having left the skin-boat to follow
us, we cut swiftly through the water, and soon reached the place of our destination.

CHAPTER VII.

  _Arrival at Oppernavik. Account of Uttakiyok. His perseverance
  in waiting for the arrival of the Missionaries. Islands and
  bays between Kakkeviak and Killinek. Danger in the ice at
  Ammitok. Want of fuel supplied by robbing old graves._

When we arrived at Oppernavik, we found _Uttakiyok_, with his two wives and youngest brother,
waiting to receive us. He and his family are from the Ungava bay, and had been upon the watch
in this place during the whole spring. They welcomed us with shouts of joy, and firing of their
pieces, and we had indeed the greatest reason to thank God, that he had sent us this man, to
conduct us on our way to an unknown country, and through unfrequented seas.

For this service Uttakiyok was eminently qualified, and without such a steady, faithful guide,
we should have been wandering in the most painful and dangerous uncertainty in the desert regions
to the West of Cape Chudleigh, where, on a coast of 100 miles in length, we did not meet with
a single inhabitant. He was so anxiously intent upon meeting us, that he had erected signals
on all the heights surrounding his tent, to prevent our missing him. Among his countrymen he
is much respected, on account of his superior sense, and skill in all Esquimaux arts, and possesses
great influence among them.

_Uttakiyok_ was one of the two Esquimaux, from whom, in the year 1800, we received the first
distinct information respecting the Ungava country and its inhabitants, by which the desire,
excited both at home and here in Labrador, to visit the northern Esquimaux, was greatly strengthened,
and led to a resolution, if possible, to take early steps to accomplish this object, (See page 3).

Two years ago, he had been on a trading voyage to Okkak, from Killinek, where he then dwelt,
and intended to return, in the summer following, to Ungava, his native country, but an illness,
which befel his son, detained him. This intelligence was received at Okkak during last winter,
when we sent him word, that as we purposed paying his countrymen a visit, we wished him to
wait for us, that he might conduct us through the straits of Killinek. But having heard nothing
further concerning him, we remained in uncertainty respecting his intentions. We were the more
thankful to God, who had disposed the heart of this man cheerfully to accept of the commission,
and wait to be our guide, an office which he performed with a degree of faithfulness and disinterested
kindness, which claims our admiration and gratitude.

While we were here waiting for a favourable opportunity to pass the straits, which were yet
filled with ice, he behaved in the kindest manner to us and our Esquimaux. Though a heathen,
he regularly attended our morning and evening worship, and declared to Jonathan, that he also
intended to be converted to Jesus, and if we would form a settlement in his country, would
come and live with us, and was sure, that many of his countrymen would do the same.

Around his tent, a considerable extent of rock was covered with seal's flesh, and in the hollows
were pools of oil. Ten bags of blubber were standing ready for sale; and with a view to shew
him our good-will, Brother Kohlmeister bartered with him for three of them, which were hid
under the stones, to take them with us, if practicable, on our return.

26th. We put up our three tents; Uttakiyok's people had three more. Wind N.W. We were now near
the entrance into the Ikkerasak, (or straits), which separate the island of Killinek and two
or three other large islands from the continent. They stretch to the N. to the distance of
about 12 or 15 English miles, the outer one forming Cape Chudleigh. To the N.W. of the cape
lie some other small islands, called by the Esquimaux _Tutsaets_, and N.N.E. of these, the
great island _Resolution_, called _Igloarsuk_, on which, as we were informed, many Esquimaux
reside. The Tutsaets were discernible from this place, but not the latter, which however, as
the Esquimaux say, may be seen from the Tutsaets. We guessed at its situation, from the clouds
hanging over it in the North quarter. The weather was, as might be expected on the northern
coast of America, foggy, rainy, and cold, and our small stove, which we brought into the tent,
was of great use to us during our stay in this place.

27th. Rain and wind violent, and prevented our proceeding. We caught some _Pitsiolaks_, (awks),
and a brace of young puffins, which, with the addition of some salt meat, made excellent broth.

28th. The weather was fair, but the wind still blowing hard at N.W. Brother Kmoch went to Uttakiyok's
tent, and sitting down with him at the point of Oppernavik, and looking down the coast as far
as Kakkeviak, got him to name all the bays, points, and islands, from Kakkeviak to Oppernavik,
of which he made minutes. The distance between the two points or headlands may be guessed at,
by the time of sailing with a strong leading wind, namely three hours and a half. Coming up
from Kakkeviak, to the E. lie three islands, _Kikkertorsoak_, _Imilialuk_, rather less in view,
and _Nessetservik_. Having passed these, there follows a chain of small, naked islands, not
very high, stretching towards Killinek. To the W. near Kakkeviak lies _Uglek_; then a bay,
_Nulluk_, and farther to the left another bay, _Tellek_, (right arm). The country along these
bays is called _Attanarsuk_. Now follow the bay _Ikkorliarsuk_, the lower point of _Tikkerarsuk_,
the bay _Annivagtok_, and _Kakkeviak_, a high promontory, (not to be confounded with the other
Kakkeviak, where we struck on the rock. This promontory is only about four miles from Oppernavik
to the S.E.). Then follow two small bays, _Anniovariktok_ and _Sangmiyok_, then the promontory
_Ukkuliakartok_, (meaning a headland between two bays), and the bay _Tunnusuksoak_. Next, the
last point on the continent, forming the south entrance to the Ikkerasak. The abovementioned
chain of barren islands is called by the Esquimaux _Naviarutsit_, and besides them some low
rocks, _Nuvurutsit_. The island of Killinek is about nine miles long, and five broad, high,
and forming the north side of the straits. Another Ikkerasak, (or strait), divides it from
an island called Kikkertorsoak, (a common name for an island), of considerable height, but
not so long as _Killinek_: one, or perhaps more islands follow, narrowing E. and W. and forming
Cape Chudleigh.

To-day there was much ice both in the strait and at sea. We went to the nearest island, where
Brother Kohlmeister took an observation, and found our situation to be 60° 16'.

30th. It blew a hard gale from the N.E., rained hard, and as the ice now began to enter our
harbour, we were busily engaged in keeping it off the boat.

31st. Imagining to-day that the straits would be free from ice, we resolved to attempt to pass
them, and set sail. But it soon became evident, that there was still plenty of ice in the neighbourhood,
and the wind setting to the N.E. with fogs, we were obliged to return. Suspecting also that
the easterly wind would again drive the ice into our former harbour at Oppernavik, we ran into
a short pass, between that and a small island called Ammitok, where we anchored under shelter
of the island. The sequel proved, that we had for once acted with sound judgment and foresight,
for our former anchoring-ground was soon filled with ice; and during the night large flakes
entered even into our present place of refuge.

_August_ 1st. At day break we found ourselves completely surrounded by floating ice, a strong
N.W. wind driving the large shoals from the W. side of the little pass in which we lay, with
much force towards us, insomuch that our boat was in the greatest danger of being crushed to
pieces by them. We were all day long hard at work with poles, boat-hooks, and hatchets, to
ward off the larger shoals, but when the tide fell, they hung upon our cables and anchors,
of which we had three out, closing in also on all sides of the boat, so that we were every
moment in fearful expectation of her being carried away, and our anchors lost, which would
have reduced us to the most distressing situation. Indeed we all cried to the Lord to help
us in this dangerous situation, and not to suffer us to perish here, but by His almighty aid,
to save us and our boat. With great and unremitting exertions we had laboured all day, from
the morning early, till seven in the evening, when the Lord heard our prayers, and sent relief.
We now succeeded in working the boat out of the ice, the rising of the tide having opened a
passage through it, just as we were almost exhausted with fatigue. It also became quite calm,
and we felt as if we had passed from death to life.

Having anchored again on the opposite side of the little pass or strait, we gave thanks to
God, for the deliverance we had experienced through His mercy, in which our Esquimaux, young
and old, most fervently joined.

During our stay at Oppernavik, our whole stock of fire-wood was expended, and we were obliged
to purchase of our companions, what they had to spare. We likewise robbed some old Esquimaux
graves of the wooden utensils, which it is the superstitious practice of the heathen to lay
beside the corpses of their owners, with old tent-poles, &c. and thus obtained fuel sufficient
for our cookery.

Wood will not decay by mere exposure to the air in Labrador, but wastes away gradually; and
after forty or more years, the wood found at the graves is still fit for use.

CHAPTER VIII.

  _Departure from Oppernavik. Pass the Ikkerasak of Killinek.
  Whirlpools. The coast takes a southerly direction. Meeting with
  Esquimaux from the Ungava country, who had never seen an
  European. Anchor at Omanek. High tides. Drift-wood. Double Cape
  Uibvaksoak. Distant view of Akpatok._

August 2d.--Having made all needful preparations for the voyage, a gentle but favourable wind,
and occasional rowing, brought us, about nine in the morning, to the entrance of the much dreaded
Ikkerasak. The weather was pleasant and warm, not a flake of ice was to be seen, and all our
fear and anxiety had subsided. Our minds were attuned to praise and thanksgiving for the providential
preservation we had experienced yesterday. We performed our morning devotions on deck, and
all joined in a joyful hallelujah to God our Saviour, which was sweetly repeated by echoes
among the mountains and precipices on either side. The scripture-text appointed in the Church
of the United Brethren for this day being read, it seemed as if addressed particularly to us,
separated as we felt ourselves, in these lonely regions, from the rest of the inhabitants of
the earth: "_See now that I, even I, am He, and there is no God with me: I kill, and I make
alive; I wound, and I heal._" Deut. 32, 39. We rejoiced, that we were in the hands of a gracious
and merciful God and Father, who would not forsake us, but deal with us according to his wonted
mercy and favour.

The Ikkerasak, (or strait), is about ten miles in length; the land on each side high and rocky,
and in some places precipitous, but there appeared no rocks in the strait itself. The water
is deep and clear. Its mouth is wide, and soon after entering, a bay opens to the left, which
by an inlet only just wide enough to admit a boat, communicates with a lagoon of considerable
magnitude, in which lies an island on its western bank. Beyond this bay, the passage narrows
and consequently the stream, always setting from N. to S. grows more rapid. Here the mountains
on both sides rise to a great height. Having proceeded for two miles in a narrow channel, the
strait opens again, but afterwards contracts to about 1000 yards across; immediately beyond
which, the left coast turns to the south. As the tide ebbs regularly with the current from
N. to S. along the whole coast of Labrador, the current through the strait is most violent
during its fall, and less, when resisted by its influx on rising.

We were taught to expect much danger in passing certain eddies or whirlpools in the narrow
parts of the straits, and were therefore continually upon the look-out for them. When we passed
the first narrow channel, at 12 P.M. it being low water, no whirlpool was perceptible. Having
sailed on for little more than half an hour, with wind and tide in our favour, we reached the
second. Here, indeed, we discovered a whirlpool, but of no great magnitude at this state of
the tide. Near the north-shore the water was, indeed, whirled round in the manner of a boiling
cauldron of ten or twelve feet diameter, with considerable noise and much foam; but we passed
without the smallest inconvenience, within thirty or forty feet of the outer circle. Our skin-boat,
however, which we had in tow, with a man in it, was seized by the vortex, and received a rapid
twist; but as the towing-rope did not break, she was immediately rescued from danger by the
swiftness of our course, and the affair afforded us more diversion than anxiety. The motion
of the water in these eddies is so great, that they never freeze in the severest winter. The
ice being drawn towards them with great force, the largest shoals are carried under water,
and thrown up again, broken into numerous fragments. The Ikkerasak is at that season utterly
impassable for boats. The Killinek people inhabit an island to the right, after leaving the strait.

When we quitted the Ikkerasak, and entered the ocean on the western side of Cape Chudleigh,
it seemed as if we were transported to a new world. Hitherto the coast to our left had always
taken a northerly direction. It now turned to the S.S.W. and is low, with gently sloping hills,
the sea being full of small islands, abounding in sea-fowl.

To the N. and N.W. we saw the open sea in Hudson's Straits, which, compared to the turbulent
Atlantic, seemed calm and peaceful. We sailed briskly amidst the islands, and overtook the
inhabitants of Saeglek, whom we had seen at Kakkeviak, where they had got the start of us.
The wind being favourable, we did not hail them, but kept on our course. We now saw with pleasure
the Ungava country to the South before us, but had first to pass the low point of _Uivarsuk_,
the bay of _Arvavik_, in which the people from Saeglek had their summer stations, and the mountain
_Omanek_, of moderate height, and surrounded by many small islets, called by the Esquimaux
_Erngavinget_, (bowels). (POMPEII.)]
The procession then forms again, and the party proceeds to whatever place outside the walls may
contain the family tomb of the Silii. No burial is allowed within the city proper, and for
our purposes we will assume that the place is distant nearly a
mile along the Appian Way.

We will assume also that Silius is to be cremated, and not simply buried in a coffin or a marble
sarcophagus. Few persons of the higher classes, except certain of the Cornelii, are buried at
this date, although there is nothing in law or custom to prevent the choice. There exists no
"crematorium," and the Silii are regularly burned at their own sepulchral allotment beside
the "Queen of Roads."
If you were with the procession on this day you would find yourself before one of an almost
continuous chain of monuments, built in all manner of shapes and
sizes--such as great altars, small shrines, pyramids (like that of
Cestius on another road), or round towers like the beautiful tomb
of Caecilia Metella.

The exterior of these structures is often adorned with commemorative or symbolic carvings, and
the inside, which may be wholly above the surface or partly sunk beneath--is a chamber surrounded
by niches, in which are placed the urns containing the ashes of the dead. Perhaps an illustration
of the present state of the "Street of Tombs" at Pompeii will afford some notion, although the
sepulchres of that provincial place by no means matched those upon the various roads outside
the Roman gates. Often the monumental chamber stands somewhat back from the road, leaving
space for a large semicircular seat of stone open to public use, its back wall being inscribed
with some statement of honour to the family. Round the sepulchre--"where all the kindred
of the Silii lie" is a space of ground, planted with shrubs and trees, and surrounded by a low
wall. Somewhere near, on an open level, the funeral pile has been built of pine-logs, with
the interstices stuffed with pitch, brushwood, or other inflammable
material.

It is natural that the pyre should take the shape of an altar and that cypress branches
should lean against the sides.

Upon the summit of this pile is laid Silius on his bier; incense and unguents are shed over him;
wreaths and other offerings, often of no little value, are cast upon the heap. While loud cries
of lamentation are being raised by the company present, a near kinsman approaches the pile with
a torch, and, turning his face away, sets fire to the whole structure. It speedily burns
down, the last embers are quenched with wine, the general company thrice cries "farewell,"
and, except for the nearest relatives, the procession returns to the city. The relatives who
stay take off their shoes, wash their hands, and proceed to gather up the bones--which they
cleanse in wine and milk--and the ashes, which they mix with perfume. These remains are then
placed in the urn of bronze, marble, alabaster, or maybe of coloured glass, and the urn
fills one more niche in the chamber of the monument.

[Illustration: FIG. 123.

--COLUMBARIUM.]
Now and then there were more magnificent obsequies than those of Silius. A "public" funeral
might be decreed to a man who had deserved conspicuously well of the state. On such an occasion
the crier would go round, calling "Oyez, come all who choose to the funeral of So-and-So."
The invitation meant, not merely participation in a solemn procession, but also in the funeral
feast, and probably an exhibition of gladiators. On the other hand the majority of burials
were naturally of a far more simple and inexpensive kind. The poor could not afford to use
unguents and keep their dead till the third day; they could not afford real cypress trees,
but must use cheaper substitutes, if anything at all. They could not afford all the processionists
and paraphernalia of the undertaker, but must be satisfied with four commonplace bearers, who
hurried away the corpse in the evening, not on a couch but in a
cheap box, and carried it out to the common necropolis beyond the
Esquiline Gate.

Seldom could they afford the fuel to burn the body, and in many cases it must simply be
thrown into a pit roughly dug and there left without monument.

To secure more respect and decency there were many burial clubs, whether connected with the
trade-guilds or not, and these procured a joint tomb of the kind known as a "dovecote," or
columbarium, from the resemblance of its niches to so many pigeon-holes. These cooperative
sepulchres were underground vaults, and it is perhaps hardly necessary to point out their direct
relation to the Christian catacombs. Similar tombs were sometimes used by the great Roman
families for the remains of the freedmen and slaves of their house.

[Illustration: FIG. 124.--TEMPLE OF JUPITER ON THE CAPITOL (Platform
omitted).]It was about full moon, and the tide rising here five or six fathom,
occasioned the most strange alterations in the prospect towards the sea, which, being smooth
and clear of rocks at high water, exhibited, after its fall, an archipelago of rugged islands
and black flats.

CHAPTER IX.

  _Chain of black mountains. The Dragon's dwelling. Changes
  occasioned by rise and fall of the tides, and dangers attending
  them. Uttakiyok's superstitious customs. Singular effect of the
  tide in the bay of Ittimnekoktok. Arrive at Kangertlualuksoak
  bay and river. Its situation. Transactions there._

August 6th.--We crossed the bay _Abloriak_, which is large and wide, with many small islands
and rocks towards the sea, and high black mountains inland, called _Torngaets_. Uttakiyok,
who was always very eager to make us attentive to every object and its name, shewed us here
a wide and deep cavern, in shape like the gable end of an house, situated at the top of a precipice,
in a black mountain, of a very horrid and dark appearance. This, he informed us, was the dwelling
place of Torngak, the evil spirit. The scenery was, indeed, extremely wild and terrible, and
the beforementioned prospect of the rocks and islands at low water gave to the whole country
a most singularly gloomy character. Nor is this change, occasioned by the tide in the state
of the sea, merely in appearance terrific, it is so in reality: for we never durst cast anchor
in less than eight or nine fathoms water, lest at ebb-tide we should find ourselves aground,
or even high and dry.

The cavern just spoken of, connected with the chain of black mountains in which it is situated,
we called the Dragon's dwelling, but had no time to examine the place, though it did not appear
inaccessible. Whether Uttakiyok would have ventured to accompany us into it, is another question,
for he was, with all his good sense, strongly attached to the superstitious notions and ceremonies
of his countrymen. Thus, on passing dangerous places he always hung the claw of a raven to
his breast, and carried the blown paunch of a seal upon a tent-pole fixed to one side of his
boat. The latter is a common practice among the northern Esquimaux, and probably considered
by them all as a very efficient charm.

We passed _Sioralik_, and many small and flat rocky islands: the bay _Issorkitok_, (a grassy
place), a nameless headland; and the larger bay _Nappartolik_, (a woody country). The wood
is said to commence at the interior point of this bay, and to continue throughout the whole
of the Ungava country, which, as we afterwards discovered, extends to a considerable distance
to the southward. Then follows _Tunnuyalik_, a point, or perhaps an island, on which lies a
huge white stone, twenty or thirty feet high, by which it is distinguished from other similar
headlands. A chain of low, flat islands, runs out into the sea to a considerable distance,
and appearing at a distance as continued land, they are mistaken for a cape. Farther on is
the bay _Ittimnekoktok_, where it grew dark before we found a suitable anchorage. The wind
was high, and some of our company went on shore in the skin-boat, in order to pitch their tent,
and spend the night.

7th. On rising, to our great surprise, we found ourselves left by the tide in a shallow pool
of water, surrounded by rocky hills; nor could we at all discover the situation of our skin-boat,
till after the water had begun to rise, and raised us above the banks of our watery dungeon,
when, with great astonishment, not having been able to find it on the surface of the sea, and
accidentally directing our eyes upwards, we saw it perched upon the top of a considerable eminence,
and apparently on shore. We then landed, and ascending a rising ground, beheld with some terror,
the wonderful changes occasioned by the tides. Our course was visible to the extent of two
or three English miles, but the sea had left it, and we were obliged to remain in this dismal
place, till about noon, before the water had risen sufficiently to carry us out. We now began
to entertain fears, lest we might not always be able to find proper harbours, so as to avoid
being left high and dry at low water; for having anchored in nine fathoms last night, we were
left in one and a half this morning. Uttakiyok and Thukkekina were with us on shore. The eminence
on which we stood was overgrown with vaccinia and other plants, and we saw among them marks
of its being visited by hares. Near the summit was a spot, covered with red sand, which stained
one's fingers, and among it were fragments of a substance resembling cast iron. We seemed here
to stand on a peninsula connected by an isthmus with another island, or with the continent;
but probably at high water it may be a separate island.

As soon as the tide would permit, we set out, and proceeded towards a cape called _Kattaktok_,
surrounded by small islands. Between the cape and our anchoring place, we passed, on the left,
the following objects; _Keglo_, a broad deep bay; _Katarusialik_, a headland, probably of the
continent; _Ukkasiksalik_, (meaning a place where soap stone is found), a peninsula; and to
the right of the latter place, an island, _Kikkertarsoak_, which lies at the entrance of the
_Great Bay_, or estuary of the great river _Kangertlualuksoak_. We sailed with a strong, but
favourable wind, with some rain, between the peninsula and the island; and not trusting to
the depth of the water at ebb-tide, sent two kayaks forward to sound. They soon brought us
into a good harbour, where we cast anchor about half past five P.M.

_Kangertlualuksoak_ river was the spot to which we had principally directed our views. It lies
about 140 miles S.S.W. of Cape Chudleigh. By an observation at its mouth its latitude appeared
to be 58° 57'. But we had no means of finding the longitude. At its entrance the bay runs rather
S.S.E. for about ten or twelve English miles, then turns due S.E. for six or eight more, and
after that S.W. At the second turn towards the S.E. there is the greatest quantity of wood,
chiefly Larch, but of moderate size. We particularly noticed a fine slope facing the south,
which appeared the most pleasant part of the bay, to which a vessel might approach and anchor
with convenience, there being from 24 to 30 fathoms water. We also imagined that the entrance
from the sea would be free from obstructions, as no islands are seen in that direction. Uttakiyok
likewise declared, that there was no bar or sunken rocks near the mouth of the bay.

We found no inhabitants on our arrival, but on the 13th, a whole company of people from Killinek
joined us.

Our transactions in the bay of _Kangertlualuksoak_, from the 7th, are here noticed more in detail.

_August_ 8th. We landed, and went in search of our people, who had spent the night in tents
on shore. Okkiksuk accompanied us to the top of a hill, overlooking the bay _Ittimnekoktok_,
where we had anchored the day before. We saw it quite dry, and full of large fragments of rock.
Turning towards the land, we discovered some wood at a distance. The weather being calm and
warm, the musquitoes were excessively troublesome. The vallies here are overgrown with verdure,
and the hills pretty well clothed with moss, and berry-bearing plants; but we could not continue
our walk, on account of the musquitoes, which persecuted us unmercifully, and drove us back
to our tents. All our men were out, two on that side on which we had landed, and the others
having crossed the bay in their kayaks, were employed in hunting reindeer. Jonathan only remained
at home. In the afternoon he accompanied us in the small boat, to a hill, situated to the South
of our station, at about two miles distant, where we landed, and went up the country, but found
nothing much worth notice. We observed, that round the headland near us, the water was very
rough, with eddies and whirlpools, occasioned by the rising of the high tides. On returning
to our little boat, we found it aground. We therefore gathered some drift-wood, of which there
was plenty, and made a good fire, at which we sat down and regaled ourselves with some biscuit
and beer. Having pushed the boat into the water, we set out, but owing to the violence of the
current had hard work to get to the great boat, and did not arrive till dark. Jonas saluted
us from on board, by firing off his piece in token of success, and we found that he had got
two, and his companion three reindeer, and a small black bear. The carcases were left at the
tents, where part was cooked, and a mess brought to us on board, which proved an agreeable
repast after our fatigue. Jonas and his family spent the night on board, the rest of the Esquimaux
in their tents on shore.

9th. Jonas having found a good harbour on the other side of the bay, and the current being
here very strong, we sailed across and anchored there. The strand was even, and full of smooth
rocks, above high water mark. The bottom of the bay is mud, and a slimy substance, covering
all the stones and pebbles, left by the tide, makes walking very troublesome.

The land is not high, but pleasant, covered with moss, with many small ponds, and marks of
being frequented by reindeer.

10th. We went farther up the bay in the skin-boat, with Jonathan, Uttakiyok, Thukkekina, Paul,
David, and Okkiksuk. At a short distance from the place where we had landed yesterday, we came
to a fine green terrace, overgrown with low shrubs and bushes, which delighted us much. From
hence, a woody valley, extending to the left, seemed to invite us to take that course into
the country, but we would not waste our time by examining it. On sailing farther up the bay,
and turning round the abovementioned terrace, we came to a small inlet, dry at low water, on
the left shore. Its banks were pleasantly covered with low bushes, interspersed with higher
trees, and the place seemed to us very suitable for a settlement. From hence we perceived,
at a short distance, on the opposite coast, a cape or headland, over which the tops of trees
made their appearance. We sailed towards it, and found behind it a tract covered with low wood,
chiefly larch and pine: on landing we saw the tracks of rein-deer, which had just left the
spot. Jonathan, in an instant, ran like a young man for his gun, and with it into the wood.
We followed him for two or three miles, but saw nothing but the track of the deer. The country
inland seems in general level, with some low hills, and many ponds; without wood, but overgrown
with rein-deer moss. No success attended our huntsman, and in the evening we met again in the
boat. Brother Kmoch had kept up with Jonathan, and saw, among the bushes, the same kind of
large partridge, or American wild pheasant, which is found about Okkak, but seems only to live
in woods. It was a hen, with a covey of young birds, one of which which he caught, examined,
and let go again, nor would he take or shoot the hen, out of compassion to the young brood.

Brother Kohlmeister had meanwhile gone farther up the bay, and thought he had discovered the
entrance of the river, but no fresh water appearing, we must still have been a great way off
its influx into the bay.

We now lighted a fire, boiled coffee, and cooked a dish of reindeer venison. The weather was
warm, and the night fine and clear, but frosty. Having brought our travelling-beds with us
on shore, (see page 34), we crept into them, and spent the night at the fire-side, the Esquimaux
lying down anywhere about us. In the morning, the whole country was covered with hoar-frost,
and the straw we had lain upon was frozen fast to the ground.

CHAPTER X.

  _Further transactions in Kangertlualuksoak Bay. The Esquimaux
  women frightened by reports of Indians. Ceremony of taking
  possession of this new-explored country, as belonging to the
  King of England, and of naming the river George river. Leave
  the bay and proceed to Arvarvik. Whales caught by the Esquimaux
  in the shallows. Storm at Kernertut._

August 11th.--We rose by break of day, and after breakfast, sailed across the bay, and landed
at the second small inlet, with an intention of penetrating into the country, but the returning
warmth of the weather by day, and the myriads of musquitoes we had to contend with, rendered
us unable to execute our purpose.

The Missionaries and Jonathan ascended a hill, from which a great tract of country might be
overlooked. It was full of wood, as far as the eye could reach. Near the inlet some places
seemed boggy, or covered with grass. From hence a valley stretched into the country, with a
small lake in it, about two or three miles distant. Berries were every where in abundance.
The summits of the hills had no wood upon them, but much reindeer-moss.

On our return, being about a mile from our landing-place, we saw our skin-boat in the middle
of the bay, and fired a gun as a signal for it to come to us. The Esquimaux had five rein-deer
in the boat, which Uttakiyok had perceived on the opposite bank. He had followed them in his
kayak, driven them into the water, and killed them there. When hard pressed, reindeer soon
take to the water, and swim so well, that a four-oared boat can scarcely come up with them,
but an Esquimaux, in his kayak will overtake them. They therefore, if possible, drive them
into the water, being then sure of their game.

After dining on part of the venison, we returned to the great boat. On the passage, we thought
we perceived at a considerable distance a black bear, and Uttakiyok, elated with his recent
success, hoped to gain new laurels. He entered his kayak and proceeded as cautiously as possible
along the shore, towards the spot, landed, climbed the hill, so as not to be observed, but
when he had got just within gun-shot, perceived, that his bear was a black stone. This adventure
furnished the company with merriment for the remainder of the voyage to the boat, which we
reached about six P.M.

When we got on board the boat, we found that all the women had taken refuge in it, thinking
that they had seen Indians onshore. The men therefore immediately landed, to take care of the
forsaken tents. This was no doubt a false alarm, for we never discovered any traces of them
during our stay. To the south of Hopedale the Indians and Esquimaux sometimes meet, but as
the Hopedale Esquimaux seek to cultivate their friendship, quarrels and bloodshed seldom occur.
In Ungava, however, though they often exchange tokens of friendship, they are apt to give way
to their national jealousies; and provocations being aggravated, their meetings now and then
terminate in murder. The Esquimaux are much afraid of the Indians, who are a more nimble and
active race.

12th. Having finished reconnoitring the neighbourhood, and gathered all the information concerning
it, which our means would permit, and likewise fixed upon the green slope or terrace above
described, as the most suitable place for a settlement, on account of the abundance of wood
in its neighbourhood, we made preparations to proceed. Uttakiyok, who had spent more than one
winter in the Ungava country, assured us, that there was here an ample supply of provisions,
both in summer and winter, which Jonathan also credited, from his own observation. The former
likewise expressed himself convinced, that if we would form a settlement here, many Esquimaux
would come to us from all parts. We ourselves were satisfied that Europeans might find the
means of existence in this place, as it was accessible for ships, and had wood and water in
plenty. As for Esquimaux, there appeared no want of those things upon which they live, the
sea abounding with whitefish, seals, sea fowl, &c. and the land with reindeer, hares, bears,
and other animals. The people from Killinek declared their intention of removing hither, if
we would come and dwell among them, and are even now in the habit of visiting this place every
summer. Our own company even expressed a wish to spend the winter here.

This being the day before our departure, we erected, on two opposite hills, at the entrance
of the bay, high marks of stones, and on the declivity of a hill to the right, a board, into
which we had cut an inscription, thus--

[Illustration: In front, Georgius III. Rex. Societas Unitatis Fratrum.]

[Illustration: At the back. Benjamin Kohlmeister, George Kmoch, Aug. 7, 1811. The day of our
arrival.]

We raised and fixed this tablet with some solemnity, in presence of Uttakiyok and his family,
as representatives of the people of Ungava, and of our own company, and hoisted the British
flag alongside of it, while another was displayed at the same time in the boat. We explained
the cause of this ceremony to all present, to the following effect--

"That we, on this day, raised this sign, in the name of our king, George III. the great monarch
of all these territories, in testimony of our having explored it, and made choice of it, in
case we or our Brethren should think proper to settle here. To which we called upon all present
to bear witness." We then proclaimed the name of the Kangertlualuksoak to be henceforth _George
River_, upon which every man fired his piece three times, the vollies being answered from the boat.

The texts of scripture appointed for this day were then read, and we remarked how encouraging
they were, as relating to the purpose, for which we visited these unknown regions:

_From the rising of the sun, even to the going down of the same, my name shall be great among
the Gentiles, saith the Lord of Hosts!_ Mal. 11, 1.

_At the name of Jesus every knee shall bow, of things in heaven, and things in earth, and things
under the earth; and every tongue shall confess, that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of
God the Father!_ Philippians, 2, 10, 11.

After the ceremony was over, we distributed some pease, bread, and beer among the Esquimaux,
which enabled them to make a splendid feast, and the day was spent in the most agreeable manner.

13th. We set sail, about six A.M. with a gentle breeze, which however soon fell away entirely,
and obliged us to take to our oars. Near the mouth of the bay, we met several kayaks, coming
towards us. They were Esquimaux from Killinek, who expressed regret at not having sooner heard
of our being here; some came on board, and traded with our people. We presented them with a
little tobacco, for which they were very thankful.

In order to get well out of the bay, we first steered North, and then passed to the S.W. between
a peninsula _Nauyat_, lying to the left of the entrance, and seven small islands and rocks
on the right, towards the island of _Arvarvik_, about six or seven miles distant, where we
were obliged to cast anchor in an exposed situation, the wind having become contrary. There
was a strong swell during the night, which violently agitated our boat.

_Arvarvik_ is about five miles in circumference. It is covered with the bones of whales, which
the Esquimaux catch here in their kayaks. The coast is surrounded by a great number of small
low islands, with deep pools between them. Into these the whales stray at high water, and at
the ebbing of the tide, are prevented finding their way back again. The Esquimaux then pursue
and kill them with harpoons. In the island are ponds of fresh water, and some low hills, overgrown
with moss. A great number of sea-fowl, and also reindeer, are found upon it.

On the shore we found great quantities of a red jasper, or iron-stone, the same which occurs
throughout the coast, from _Killinek_ to South river, not as a stratum, but in lumps, and generally
below high water mark.

The Esquimaux who landed on the continent reported, that about two miles inland, there was
much low wood.

14th. We left our unpleasant anchorage, and returned to a place where the skin-boat had lain
during the night, as it was sheltered from the South wind, which had risen considerably.

15th. Our people went out to hunt reindeer, and returned in the evening with two. The wind
shifted to the west, and blew with violence. We spent again an uneasy night.

16th. Brother Kmoch went on shore and returned with a parcel of stones for examination. We
now began to feel some anxiety on account of the great loss of time we were suffering here
by contrary winds.

17th. The Roman may have had little inclination towards abstract thinking, but he was not an
idle-minded man. Even the emperors often cultivated the muse. Nero we have seen, wrote verses,
while his predecessor Claudius bore a strangely near resemblance to our own James I., not only
in respect of his weakness of character, but also of his pretensions to erudition and authorship.
We can hardly read the literature of this and the next half-century without being amazed at
the number of names of writers who gained or sought some share of repute, although few of them
have left works important enough to have been kept alive till now. It is true that through
all the writing of this time there runs what has been called the "falsetto" note, a fact
which is due partly to the absence of live national questions or
the freedom to discuss them, and partly to the false principles of
the rhetorical training already described.

The general desire was to show cleverness, wide reading, and information; there was no impulse
to great creation or to exhibitions of profound feeling.

Epigram and "point" are no less compassed in the overstrained epic of Lucan, and in the
philosophic essays of Seneca, than in the satires of Persius. It is probable that what have
been called intellectual "interests" were never more widely spread than in the _pax Romana_
of the first and second centuries A.D. We gather from literature that books innumerable were
produced on subjects often as special and minute as those selected for a German thesis, and
that almost every town worth the name, at least in the Greek-speaking part of the empire,
produced an author of sorts. But when we look into the symposia or chat of Plutarch or Aulus
Gellius, we cannot fail to note that a large proportion of this intellectual and literary activity
was being frittered away on questions either stereotyped and threadbare, or of no appreciable
utility either to knowledge or conduct. As for dilettante production at Rome itself Pliny remarks
in one letter: "This year has produced a large crop of poets: there was scarcely a day in
the whole month of April on which some one did not give a reading." During the generation into
which Nero was born and that which followed him, we meet with no great creative work in either
prose or poetry, no great contribution to the progress of science or thought. The most generally
interesting writer of the whole period was the Greek Plutarch, but though the _Parallel
Lives_ which he was preparing are immortal in their kind, and though his _Moral Essays_ are
often most excellent reading, it cannot be said that he is a profound original thinker or a
creator of anything more than a taking literary form.

Next to him in value, earlier in date, stands Seneca, who, like Plutarch, is a lively thinker
and a deft essayist, with the same love for a quotation and the same wide interests, but assuredly
not a considerable enlarger of the field of human thought. To those who know Montaigne, the
best notion of Seneca and Plutarch will be formed by remembering
that his essays are admitted by himself to be "wholly compiled of
what I have borrowed from them."

The elder Pliny supplies us with extracts and summaries of the knowledge or the notions then
extant, and we have writings on agriculture by Columella.
The youthful and rather awkward satirist Persius sees the life which
he criticises rather through the medium of books than through his
own eyes.

Such works of the period as have gained any kind of immortality are
certainly interesting and often instructive, but they indicate a
period in which reading is chiefly cultivated amusement, and knowledge
rather sought as a pastime and an accomplishment than as a power.

  The favourite reading must contain matter or sense, not too
  deep or exacting; and it must possess a style. Perhaps writers
  as various as Dryden, Pope, Horace Walpole, Samuel Johnson,
  De Quincey, Macaulay, or, on a lower platform, the authors
  of collections like the _Curiosities of Literature_ would have
been quite at home in this period:
but it would have produced no Shakespeare, Milton, or Wordsworth.

The agreeable poem, the well-expressed essay, are the approved reading for men of indolent
bent: the informative collection for the more curious, serious, or practical-minded. If the
early empire is "despotism tempered by epigram," it is perhaps not altogether untrue that
the contemporary literature was pedantry tempered by epigram, or
at least by quotation.

Science, though its matter was attractive enough to the practical Roman, was at a standstill.

So far as it existed it was Greek. The Greeks had done almost all that could be done by sheer
brain-power and acumen. They could hardly proceed further without those finer instruments
which we possess, but which they did not. Though they knew of certain magnifying glasses, they
had no real telescopes or microscopes, no mariner's compass or chronometers, no very delicate
balances.
We were, therefore, sure that He would not forsake us, nor leave us in uncertainty
as to His will concerning us, but that He, "_whose eyes run to and fro throughout the whole
earth, to shew Himself strong in the behalf of them whose heart is perfect towards Him_," (2
Chron. 16, 9.) was, even in this desolate region, present with us, and would hear and answer
our prayers. Many comfortable texts of scripture occurred to our minds on this occasion, filling
us with an extraordinary degree of faith and confidence in Him, particularly such as, "_He
will be very gracious unto thee at the voice of thy cry; when He shall hear it, He will answer
thee_," Isa. 30, 19. Also, Dan. 10, 19; Jer. 16, 21; Isa. 43, 2, &c. The mercies, also, which
we had already experienced, excited within us a sense of the deepest gratitude and most firm
trust; and we therefore told our people, that we indeed participated in their concern, would
take the subject into serious consideration, and acquaint them with our determination on the
morrow.

19th. In the morning we met in our tent, where we were safe from the intrusion of the Esquimaux,
to confer together upon this most important subject. We weighed all the circumstances connected
with it, maturely and impartially, as in the presence of God, and, not being able to come to
any decision, where reasons for and against the question seemed to hold such an even balance,
we determined to commit our case to Him, who has promised, that "_if two of His people shall
agree on earth, as touching any thing that they shall ask, it shall be done for them_," (Matth.
18, 19.) and, kneeling down, entreated Him to hear our prayers and supplications in this our
distressed and embarrassing situation, and to make known to us His will concerning our future
proceedings, whether we should persevere in fulfilling the whole aim of our voyage, or, prevented
by circumstances, give up a part, and return home from this place.

The peace of God which filled our hearts on this memorable occasion, and the strong conviction
wrought in us both, that we should persevere, in His name, to fulfil the whole of our commission,
relying without fear on His help and preservation, no words can describe; but those who believe
in the fulfilment of the gracious promises of Jesus, given to His poor followers and disciples,
will understand us, when we declare, that we were assured, that it was the will of God our
Saviour, that we should not now return and leave our work unfinished, but proceed to the end
of our proposed voyage. Each of us communicated to his brother the conviction of his heart,
all fears and doubts vanished, and we were filled anew with courage and willingness to act
in obedience to it, in the strength of the Lord. O that all men knew the comfort and happiness
of a mind devoted unto, and firmly trusting in God in all things!

When we made known our determination to Jonathan and his son Jonas, and told them, that we
had maturely considered the subject committed by them to us, and that, in answer to our prayers,
the Lord had convinced us, that, not having obtained the aim of our voyage, we should proceed,
Jonas, at first, seemed not quite satisfied, but our excellent captain, Jonathan, without hesitation
replied: "Yes, that is also my conviction! We will go whither Jesus directs us. He will bring
us safe to our journey's end, and safe home again." We were, indeed, glad and thankful that
the Lord had inclined the heart of this man, who but yesterday seemed to be quite dispirited,
to take this resolution, for much depended upon him, and the rest followed him without difficulty.
Indeed they all submitted to our determination with a willing mind, and their expressions of
resignation affected us much.

During the day, the men had been out a-hunting, when Uttakiyok killed three reindeer, which
occasioned great rejoicing, and helped to make our people forget the frightful scenes of yesterday.
The country is full of black looking rocks, between which reindeer-moss and berries grow in
plenty. The shore exhibited still many marks of the violence of the storm.

20th. We proceeded with a favourable wind at N.E. Our course lay S.W. across a broad bay, then,
after doubling a point, across another bay of about the same breadth, to an island _Allukpaluk_,
which we passed on the right, and on the left, another island, _Nipkotok_. At a considerable
distance a-head lay the islands _Pitsiolak_, opposite a headland of the continent called _Tuktutok_.

The sky had been from the morning cloudy, the wind became unfavourable and violent, and about
noon heavy rain came on. Not being well able to proceed, on account of the violence of the
wind, we cast anchor on the west side of _Pitsiolak_, about 2 P.M. but perceiving a thunderstorm
rising from the western horizon, with very black clouds, threatening to drive us on shore if
we remained at this anchorage, we weighed as quickly as possible, and endeavoured to get to
the other side of the island.

Meanwhile a most tremendous storm of thunder, lightning, and rain overtook us. The claps of
thunder followed the flashes without interval, and the lightning seemed to strike into the
water close to our boat, while the wind carried the spray into the air like smoke. Providentially
we had doubled the northern point before the worst came on, and got to an anchor under shelter
of the land. The storm passed by swiftly, it grew calm, the sun broke out, and the weather
became uncommonly fine with us, though at a distance we saw the black clouds, and heard the
hollow murmuring of the thunder for a long time.

We now expected to have a comfortable night's rest, but it grew intensely cold, and again began
to blow violently from the west. The strong current and heavy swell brought us into some danger,
and the poor people, who were obliged to remain on deck all night, suffered much from cold
and wet. When the tide was full, about midnight, the island we had seen to the west nearly
vanished, the greater part being covered with water.

21st. In the morning we again saw the skin-boat lying upon a pretty high rock, and a tent pitched
close to it. The weather was calm, but the wind contrary. Our Esquimaux made good use of this
respite to refresh themselves after the fatigues of the night with a hearty meal and a sound nap.

In the afternoon we landed. The island Pitsiolak, which forms two at high water, is low and
flat, overgrown with Empetrum and Rubus Chamoemorus, (_Akpik_-berries). Quantities of driftwood
float about the shores. The jasper occurred here again. This island may be about four or five
miles long, and, at low water, is connected with other islands to the north. By the help of
our glasses we could perceive woods on the continent, and the Esquimaux thought they discovered
the smoke of Indian fires. They are much afraid of meeting these people. Bloody encounters
occasionally occur between them. The Indians come from the interior, and from Hudson's Bay,
and are frequently seen near the two principal rivers, George river and South river, towards
which we were going; but we met with none. Brother Kohlmeister rather wished for it, as some
of them are said to understand English, and he was desirous of endeavouring to bring them to
a more peaceable disposition towards the Esquimaux, by friendly conversation.

22d. We found the skin-boat a great hindrance to us. Without being obliged to take that in
tow, we might have kept at a greater distance from the shore, which would have enabled us to
get on more rapidly, and with greater safety. On shore we found a great quantity of cubical
pyrites in a grey matrix. The Esquimaux are attentive to this mineral, and have before now
brought it to Okkak.

23d. We proceeded at 6 A.M. and steered for the island of _Saeglorsoak_. The islands called
_Nocharutsit_ lay on our left. They are a group of numerous small islands, many of which are
overflowed at high water, extending W. and E. towards the entrance of South river. Between
these islands and Akpatok, the sea is said to be clear of rocks, and the water of sufficient
depth for any ship entering from Hudson's Straits, and bound to the Koksoak, or South river;
but no ship durst, in our opinion, venture to approach the coast of Ungava within twenty or
thirty miles.

In the afternoon, the tide turning against us, and the wind unfavourable, we were obliged to
come to an anchor among the islands. We had left the skin-boat behind, with Thukkekina, Uttakiyok's
brother Annoray, and one of his wives, to whom he had given his baggage in charge. The Esquimaux
wives are very punctilious, the first always maintains the highest dignity, regulates the housekeeping,
distributes the provisions, and directs everything, as mistress of the family.

Jonas went out in his kayak, and shot a seal. We saw many, and fired at them, but got none.
Whitefish were likewise seen at a distance. Uttakiyok and David were out in their kayaks, and
joined us in the evening loaded with geese.

On the turn of the tide we proceeded, and at ten P.M. cast anchor among the Nocharutsits, under
a pretty high island, about three or four miles in circumference. All our people remained on
board during the night, which was calm and pleasant.

24th. David roused us about five o'clock, by firing at a seal, which he killed. The women went
on shore to cook it with some geese. When they returned, we all breakfasted on the contents
of their pot.

The Esquimaux want no books of cookery to manage their kitchen affairs. The meat is boiled
with the blood in it, and the addition of some water. When it is sufficiently done, that is,
according the Ungava custom, when half warm, the women take it out of the pot, and serve it
up on a piece of stone, if on shore, and on a piece of board, if at sea. Then the person, who
has caught the seal or game, proclaims with great vociferation, that the _men_ may come and
sit down to eat. Such exertion of voice, however, seems hardly necessary, as the Esquimaux
are very acute at hearing, when they are invited to dinner. When the men have done, the women
sit down, having taken good care, beforehand, that their share is secured. The Esquimaux customs
never permit men and women to sit down together at a meal.

It sometimes happens among the heathen Esquimaux, that several having had good success, one
huntsman's feast is hardly over, before another proclaims the invitation to his banquet. This
is never suffered to pass unnoticed, while the power of cramming down another morsel remains.
Thus they will continue eating, till they are scarcely able to breathe, and then lie down to
sleep off the effects of their gluttony. Indeed their excessive voraciousness on such occasions
produces, especially after long fasting, all the symptoms of drunkenness. They forget, under
its sensual influence, all moderation, and abandon themselves to the most disgusting abominations.

In the afternoon we steered W. by N. (wind N.E.), for the cape of _Kernerauyak_, at the east
side of the entrance of the river _Koksoak_, (Sand river). Before we arrived at the cape, we
left some islands to the South, the largest of which is again called _Kikkertarsoak. Saeglorsoak_,
is a large flat island, about eight or ten miles long, and its neighbourhood very dangerous,
on account of many sunken rocks. The continent hereabouts is well wooded, and Indians are said
to be frequently seen in the interior. The mouth of the Koksoak is seven or eight English miles
broad: its shores steep, but the rocks in general low, and covered with moss. The Esquimaux
say, that in the middle there is water enough for any large ship, though the tides prevent
any near approach to the land. At sunset we came to an anchor at the mouth of the river.

CHAPTER XII.

  _Sail up the river Koksoak. Transactions in that region.
  Dangerous eddy. Meet Esquimaux. Address to them. Their joy and
  eagerness to have Missionaries, resident among them. Find a
  suitable situation for a settlement. Description of the
  country._

August 25th.--This was the joyful day on which at last we saw our hopes realized, and the principal
aim of our journey obtained. The sun rose beautifully, and announced a delightful day. We were
obliged to wait till seven A.M. for the turn of the tide, before we could proceed up the river.
The estuary of the _Koksoak_ lies, according to an observation taken, in 58° 36' N. latitude,
nearly the same as Okkak. To the west the country is called by the Esquimaux _Assokak_, the
coast turning again W.N.W. This river, therefore, seems to be at the most southern point of
the coast, George's river entering the sea at 58° 52', consequently more North.

The Koksoak appeared to us to be about as broad as the Thames at Gravesend, or the Elbe near
Hamburg, and the whole river, with its various windings, much resembles the Thames for twenty-four
miles upwards. Its depth is sufficient for a ship thus far. Its general direction is from the
South. We reckoned it to be about 600 or 700 miles from Okkak, and Killinek or Cape Chudleigh
half way.

Having proceeded five or six miles up the river, we came to a small island, which we left on
our right.

We saw several sacks of blubber, a sledge, and some other, articles lying on the beach, and
Jonathan and Brother Kmoch went in the small boat to discover the proprietors, but found nobody
there, to guard the goods.

A little farther on is a point of land running out into nearly the middle of the stream. The
current sets very rapidly round it, so as to form a dangerous eddy. Our boat was seized, and
twice turned quite round; the small boat was whirled about several times, as she pushed through
it. The women on board our boat, on seeing this, set up a loud scream; but Jonathan only laughed
at their fears, and we afterwards saw kayaks passing the eddy in perfect safety.

Having doubled the point, we perceived several kayaks approaching. The people in them shouted
aloud for joy, exclaiming, _Innuit, Innuit_! Men, Men! Some guns were also fired in the boat,
which were soon answered by some fowling-pieces from the shore.

We now saw three tents pitched on the bank, and hoisted our colours, when we were incessantly
hailed by the inhabitants. There was a general cry of _Kuvè, Kuvè, Kablunaet, Kablunaet!_ Europeans,
Europeans! from the men in the kayaks, who, by all manner of gesticulations, expressed their
pleasure, brandishing their pautiks, (oars), and shouting continually as they rowed alongside
the boat. The women on shore answered with loud acclamations.

About one P.M. we cast anchor close to their habitations. Fourteen families were here, among
whom were some from a distant district, called _Eivektok_. These had pitched their tents farther
up the river. _Arnauyak_ was with them, a man, with whom Brother Kohlmeister had become acquainted
some years ago, exceedingly regretted, that he had but a few days ago left the place, to hunt
reindeer on George's river. The children expressed their joy by running to and fro on the strand,
like wild creatures.

At first, the people in the tents appeared rather shy, but after accepting of some trifling
presents, they became quite communicative, and gave us some of their toys in exchange; then
walking round us, surveyed us narrowly, as if we were a new species of animals. Most of them
had never before seen an European. Uttakiyok's brother had joined them, and already informed
them of our arrival, without which they would probably have been yet more alarmed at seeing
strangers, and hearing the report of fire-arms.

They now invited all our people to dine with them, and having heard that Brother Kohlmeister
would like to taste the flesh of a whitefish, a kettle was immediately placed on the fire,
and a large piece put in to boil. Brother Kmoch meanwhile cooked a savoury soup of birds, and
reindeer-flesh, more fit for an European stomach. While dinner was preparing, Brother Kohlmeister
took a walk up the bank of the river, and across some hills. As the families belonging to _Eivektok_
had their summer dwelling in that neighbourhood, the Esquimaux, on perceiving that he had walked
in that direction, and fearing that the Eivektok people, seeing him alone, might mistake him
for an Indian, and shoot at him, dispatched two men to bring him back. They missed him, and
he returned before them. He found our people very pleasantly conversing with the heathen concerning
the aim of our journey, and the way of salvation. Even Uttakiyok was thus engaged, explaining,
as well as he could, the cause of our living in Labrador: he exclaimed, "let us, my friends,
all be converted to Jesus." He was heard with peculiar attention, being considered as a captain
among them. In the evening we sang hymns in Jonathan's tent. The people all came and listened
with much seriousness.

26th. To-day the Eivektok families came in a skin-boat down the river, to see us. They were
full of astonishment, but soon took courage, and handled us, to discover whether we were made
of the same materials with themselves. An old man, _Netsiak_, addressed Brother Kohlmeister:
"Are you Benjamin? I have never seen you with my eyes, but at Eivektok have heard your name
often mentioned." He seemed to be a sensible man, and a captain among his tribe.

We could not help remarking the difference between these Esquimaux and their countrymen living
on the same coasts with our settlements. The former are very poor, and miserably equipped,
whereas the latter, by their intercourse with us and other Europeans, have acquired many conveniences,
and are, by barter, well provided with what they want.

27th. We proceeded farther up the river, accompanied by most of the men, and some women, in
their skin-boat, and arrived at a bay, which, by the winding of the stream, appears like a
lake, surrounded on all sides with gently rising grounds, well planted with wood of moderate
size, chiefly larch. Behind the wood are some low hills. We named this place _Unity's Bay_.
There is here a very good place for a Missionary settlement. A fine slope extends for about
half an English mile, bounded on each extremity by a hill, on each of which we erected high
signals. The land is even and dry. Juniper, currants, and other berries, grow here in abundance,
and rivulets run out of the wood at a distance of a few hundred paces from each other. The
slope faces the S.S.E. and we named it _Pilgerruh_, (Pilgrim's rest). Brother Kohlmeister made
drawings of the situation.

From our first arrival we had improved every opportunity of making the Esquimaux acquainted
with the chief aim of our visit to this country, and addressed them both singly and in companies.
Nor were Jonathan and Jonas remiss in conversing with them about the concerns of their immortal
souls, declaring to them the love of God our Saviour towards them. We once met with Sybilla,
Jonathan's wife, seated with a company of women, under the shadow of a skin-boat, set on edge,
exhorting them, with great simplicity and fervour, to hear and believe the gospel.

28th. Brother Kmoch landed with Jonathan, and spent some hours in examining the banks of the
river. --A SACRIFICE.]
Reflect again that, when the Romans, as they spread, came into contact with Greeks, Egyptians,
or other foreigners, they met with deities whose provinces were necessarily often identical
with or closely akin to their own. Then remember that there is no church and no official document
to define the complete list of Roman gods. Does it not follow, as a matter of course, on the
one hand, that the importation of new gods was an easy matter, and on the other, that no
individual Roman could draw the line as to the number of even the old-established deities
in whom he should or should not believe?

The guardians of the public religion were satisfied if the due rites were paid by the state to those
deities, on those dates, and precisely in that manner, which happened to be prescribed in the
official religious books. For the rest they left matters to the individual.

So much it has been necessary to say in order to account for existing attitudes. We must use
the plural, since the attitude of the state officials is but one of several, and, inasmuch as
the state officials themselves were not a theological caste but only secular servants of the
community administering the regulations for external worship as laid down in the records,
it often happened that their official attitude had nothing to do
with their individual beliefs.

Often they did not know or care whether there was a real religious
efficacy in the acts which they performed; sometimes all that they
knew was that they were doing what the state required to be done
properly by some one.

Cicero quotes a dictum of a Pontifex Maximus that there was one religion of the poet, another of the
philosopher, and another of the statesman. This is true, but it is hardly adequate.
We must at least add that of the common people. A well-known statement of more modern birth
puts the case--rather too strongly--that at our period all religions were regarded by the people
as equally true, by the philosopher as equally false and by the statesman as equally useful.

We may begin with the ordinary people of whatever station, who were not poets nor thinkers
nor magistrates. It is an error to suppose that such Romans of the first century were either
atheistic or indifferent to religion. Their fault was rather that they were too superstitious,
ready to believe too much rather than too little, but to believe without relating their
belief to conduct. They did not question the existence of the traditional gods, nor the characters
attributed to them; they were ready to perform their dues of worship and to make their due
offerings, but all this had no bearing upon their own morality. They believed with the terror
of the superstitious in omens and portents, and in rites of expiation and purification to
avert the threatened evil. They were alarmed by thunder and lightning, earthquakes, bad
dreams, ravens seen on the wrong side of the road, and other evil tokens. They commonly accepted
the existence of malign spirits, including ghosts. They were prepared to believe that on occasion
a statue had bled or turned round on its base; that an ox had spoken in human language; or
that there had been a rain of blood. There were doubtless exceptions, and superstition was less
dire and oppressive than once it was.

More than fifty years before our date Cicero had said that even old women no longer shuddered
at the terrors of an underworld, and fifty years after it the satirist asserts the same of
children. But both writers are speaking somewhat hyperbolically.

Doubtless it had been wondered how two augurs could look at each other without a smile, but
there is nothing to show that even a minority of augurs were acutely conscious of anything
to smile at.
[Illustration: FIG. 111.--ISIS WORSHIP. (Wall-Painting.)]
In the multiplicity of deities the ordinary people were prepared
to accept as many more as you chose to offer them, especially if
the worship attaching to them contained mystic or orgiastic ceremonies.
_ O do come soon, and live with us, we will all gladly be converted, and
live with you." Jonathan and Jonas also bore ample testimony to the truth of what we had spoken,
and their words seemed to make a deep impression on all their countrymen. Uttakiyok was above
others eager to express his wish that we might soon make a settlement in the Ungava country.
Five of the fourteen families who mean to reside here next winter, are from Eivektok.

Farther inland, the river Koksoak widens considerably, but consequently grows more shallow.
The country is pleasant, with wood, grassy plains, and gentle hills.

31st. Having finished all our observations here, we dropped down the stream to the place, where
we had discovered the first tents.

In descending, as well as ascending the river, we saw a great number of whitefish, and many
seals. Reindeer are numerous on both shores, both in summer and winter. All the Esquimaux declared,
that this was the best provision-place in the whole country, and they consequently flock to
it from all parts every summer, frequently protracting their stay during the winter. The greater
number of those we found here, purposed spending next winter in this neighbourhood. The Esquimaux
are prevented from making this place their constant residence by their fear of the land-Indians,
which cause them to quit it sooner than they otherwise would wish to do.

We spared no pains to collect all the information we possibly could obtain, on every subject
relating to this situation, both as to itself, and in reference to the possibility of approaching
it with a ship, as likewise respecting the inhabitants of the Ungava country in general. It
appeared evident, that the place above described is the most eligible for forming a missionary-settlement.

We found it unnecessary to proceed to the Westward, by the account given us by our worthy conductor
Uttakiyok, whose information hitherto we had always found correct, and confidently to be relied on.

He reported: 1. That farther West no wood is to be found on the coast.

2. That besides the two rivers Kangertlualuksoak and Koksoak, they knew of no place where a
ship might with safety approach the land.

3. That at this time we should probably find no inhabitants, as they had all gone into the
interior to hunt reindeer.

We therefore now considered the business committed to us to be accomplished, and determined
to return to Okkak, thankful to God our Saviour for the many proofs of His favour, and protection,
experienced in the execution of our commission.

CHAPTER XIII.

_Return to Okkak._

September 1st.--At ten A.M. we fell down the river with the ebb-tide, and about noon anchored
near its mouth. The Esquimaux showed great attachment to us, and could hardly resolve to take
a final leave. They called after us, "Come soon again, we shall always be wishing for you."
Several of them, and among them our friend Uttakiyok, followed us in their kayaks to the mouth
of the river.

We erected here, on the promontory Kernerauyak, a board with an inscription similar to that
put up at George river, but with the day of our departure inserted, viz. Sept. 1st, instead
of the day of our arrival, Aug. 7th. The same solemnities took place as on the former occasion.
Our faithful pilot Uttakiyok, who had rendered us such important and essential services, now
took leave of us, as he intends to spend the winter in this neighbourhood. He repeated his
assurance, that if we settled here, he would be the first to join us, and to turn with his
whole heart to God. Not willing to be any longer incumbered with the skin-boat, we added it
to other useful articles given to Uttakiyok, as a reward for his faithful attention to us.
He was very highly gratified, and thankful for this species of remuneration.

2d. Left the Koksoak, called by us, _South river_, and steered to the N. of _Kernerauyak_ and
_Kikkertorsoak_. In the evening we cast anchor in an open road, among the _Nachorutsit_ islands,
with fine weather.

3d. Set sail at sun-rise, wind and tide in our favour, and proceeded rapidly. About noon, however,
a fog came on, which obliged us to come to an anchor at _Pitsiolak_. When it cleared up, we
proceeded, steering between _Allukpalak_ and _Nipkotok_, and cast anchor in the open sea, near
_Kernertut_, where, on our first arrival, we encountered such a tremendous storm. The night
proved quite calm and fair.

4th. A gentle breeze brought us pleasantly as far as the island _Nauyet_, at the mouth of the
_Kangertlualuksoak_, where we cast anchor, having performed the same voyage in three days,
which took us twelve on our former passage. The distance may be about 100 English miles.

5th. Landed, and erected a species of landmark, on the highest point of _Nauyet_, as a ship
entering the river must keep near this island, the shore on the other side being very foul.
Contrary winds now obliged us to enter the bay, and cast anchor in the same place where we
had lain on the 9th of August.

6th. Storm and rain prevented our proceeding. The Esquimaux went on shore, and pitched their
tent. Of late they generally spent the night on board the boat.

7th. Wind at W. but a heavy swell from the sea prevented our sailing. Our men went out to hunt,
and Paul returned in the evening with a deer.

8th. Snow had fallen during the night, and the whole country had the appearance of the middle
of winter. We dropped down with the ebb-tide, but were obliged to anchor again near the entrance
of the bay. When the tide turned we proceeded, and, leaving _Kikkertorsoak_ to the right, made
for cape _Kattaktok_, where we spent the night at anchor among some low islands. The night
was clear, and a comet appeared N. by W.

9th. Wind favourable and strong. We set sail at sun-rise, and steered for _Uibvaksoak_, and
so rapidly did our boat make way through the waves, that we arrived there already at four in
the afternoon, passing swiftly by the Dragon's dwelling, (_Torngets_). A thunder-storm was
approaching. The wind, which felt quite warm, was in our rear, and violent gusts assailed us
now and then, which made us shorten sail; yet the boat seemed to fly from island to island.
We were unable to find a safe anchorage till 8 P.M. when it was already dark. We had sailed,
in fourteen hours, about 100 English miles, and were all completely wet with the spray of the
sea and frequent showers. Our Esquimaux were obliged, in this condition, to lie down either
on deck or on shore.

10th. Reached _Omanek_, about 40 or 50 miles sail.

11th. Wind contrary, with much rain. We were confined to our narrow cabin, and shut in all
day, with a lamp burning.

12th. Clear weather: set sail at noon. In the afternoon we were saluted by some shots from
_Killinek_ Esquimaux, who were halting not far from the Ikkerasak, or straits, at the entrance
of which we cast anchor about 7 P.M.

13th. Though we wished to have some conversation with the _Killinek_ people, as they cannot
often come to Okkak, yet we thought it adviseable to lose no time, and, with the ebb-tide,
passed through the _Ikkerasak_ in perfect safety. When, about 1 P.M. the tide turned, we ran
into a cove on the south side, and at 5 P.M. anchored in the lagoon above described, (See page
43), the entrance to which will only admit a boat.

14th. Reached _Oppernavik_, where we first met Uttakiyok.

15th. Set sail with a gentle breeze, which permitted us to have our Sunday's service on deck.
The wind, however, soon turning against us, we were compelled to return to our former anchorage.

16th and 17th. We were unpleasantly detained by wind and rain, and on the latter day much snow
fell.

18th. Reached _Kikkertarsoak_ about 1 P.M. Our men went out in their kayaks, and returned in
the evening with three seals. The night was fair, with beautiful appearances of the Aurora
Borealis.

19th. The morning was calm: some indications of approaching storm made us anxious to proceed.
We set out early; but a fog coming on, we came again to an anchor off a barren island. After
staying here two hours, hoping for a favourable change, Jonathan proposed to proceed, and steered
S.W. not knowing rightly where we were. On this occasion, we could not help admiring the composure
of the Esquimaux. But having last night made a hearty meal of the provisions they had acquired,
they seemed to take things easy, and thought it would all be right in the end. So it turned
out; for by and by we saw the continent, and kept along shore, till we got to the promontory
_Kakkeviak_, where, on our passage, we had nearly suffered shipwreck. (See page 38). Here we
cast anchor in a wide shallow bay, and spent a quiet night.

20th. The fog had dispersed, and the wind was favourable, though shifting from W. to N.W.N.
and N.E. At 7 P.M. we reached _Kumaktorvik_ and found good anchorage close to the Esquimaux
winter-houses; but we were disappointed by finding them empty, the people being probably out
on the reindeer-hunt. There were four houses standing, apparently not old, and the traces of
eight others, situated on a low point of land, well covered with grass, and surrounded by high
mountains.

21st. Wind N.W. set sail by break of day; reached _Nennoktok_ about noon, and steered across
_Sangmiyok_ bay, for the northern promontory in _Nachvak_ bay. Sangmiyok bay is full of breakers,
and the sea running pretty high, they appeared very distinctly. The wind dying away in the
afternoon, we got no farther than the steep rocks under which we had spent the night of July
the 18th, where we came to an anchor. On his feet will be a pair of strong sandals, of which
the thick soles are studded with hobnails. Over his breast, and with flaps over the shoulders, he
will wear a corslet Of leather covered with hoop-like layers, or
maybe scales, of iron or bronze.

On his head will be a plain pot-like helmet or skull-cap of iron. For the rest he will possess
also a thick cloak or plaid to be used as occasion needs. In his right hand he will carry
the famous Roman pike. This is a stout weapon, over 6 feet in length, consisting of a sharp iron
head fixed in a wooden shaft, and the soldier may either charge with it as with a bayonet,
or he may hurl it like a javelin and then fight at close quarters with his sword. On the left
arm is a large shield, which may be of various shapes.

A heavy storm came on from the N.W. To-day we caught the first cod-fish, which proved
a very acceptable change of diet for us and our people.

24th. The morning was calm. Wind E. left the cove and steered for Nachvak, and came, _accidentally_,
to the very place where Jonathan's goods were deposited. Not perceiving any Esquimaux on shore,
Jonathan and Thukkekina went up the bay in their kayaks in search of them. Meanwhile _we_ landed,
and on the declivity of a hill found a great quantity of green soapstone. In the evening Jonathan
and Thukkekina returned with ten other Equimaux, who rejoiced to see us again.

25th. Brother Kohlmeister was engaged all day with the Esquimaux. Brother Kmoch went up the
mountain, and brought some fine specimens of steatite.

26th. Wind strong at N.W. we set sail; but the wind failing, we could not reach _Saeglek_,
as proposed, but spent the night in the open sea. It passed, however, without any unpleasant
occurrences.

27th. The want of wind prevented our getting to-day as far as the Saeglek islands. Having passed
through a very narrow Ikkerasak, with hardly sufficient depth of water for so large a boat,
we cast anchor near our former station at _Kikkertarsoak_.

28th. Wind cold and changeable, and towards evening stormy.

29th. Set sail about 6 A.M. with a strong wind at W. and in the evening had reached _Kangertluksoak_
islands.

30th. It blew hard, with snow, and we were obliged to spend the day shut up in our small cabin
by lamp-light. The land was covered with snow. We were detained here very unpleasantly for
three days, by the violence of the wind and weather.

_October_ 3d. We steered for the promontory of _Kaumayok_; but the wind dying away, and at
length turning to the South, we could not gain any safe harbour, and were obliged to tack about
all night in the open sea. The weather, however, was mild, and we had the advantage of moon-light.

4th. At 7 A.M. we succeeded in passing the Northern Ikkerasak near cape _Mugford_ with the
tide, and the wind becoming fair, soon brought us among the Okkak islands. About noon we doubled
cape _Uivak_, and perceived Esquimaux on shore, who ran up the hills, shouted for joy, and
gave us by signs to understand, that the ship (the brig Jemima, sent annually with provisions
to the settlements) was still at Okkak.

Our friend Scius goes through the drill, the exercises, and the hard work already mentioned.
His pay will be somewhere about £8 a year, or a little over three shillings a week, and his
food will consist mainly of wheaten porridge and bread, with salt, and a drink of thin sour
wine little better than vinegar. His wheat--the price of which is deducted from his pay--is
measured out to him every month, and it is his own business to
grind it or get it ground and converted into bread.The Missionaries and
the Esquimaux met us with tears of joy and thankfulness, when we all joined in praise to God,
who had so wonderfully kept His protecting hand over us during this perilous voyage, and granted
us to return home in safety.

Our voyage lasted from the 24th of June to the 4th of October, and we calculated it to be a
distance of from 1200 to 1300 miles.

BENJAMIN GOTTLIEB KOHLMEISTER.

GEORGE KMOCH.

[Illustration: _The Northern Extremity of_ LABRADOR with UNGAVA BAY Explored by the MISSIONARIES
_of the Unitas Fratrum_ in 1811.]

