A cordon of blue regiments surrounded the city at first from Carondelet to North St. Louis,
like an open fan. The crowds liked best to go to Compton Heights, where the tents of the German
citizen-soldiers were spread out like so many slices of white cake on the green beside the
city's reservoir. Thence the eye stretched across the town, catching the dome of the Court
House and the spire of St. John's. Away to the west, on the line of the Pacific railroad that
led halfway across the state, was another camp. Then another, and another, on the circle of
the fan, until the river was reached to the northward, far above the bend. Within was a peace
that passed understanding,--the peace of martial law.

Without the city, in the great state beyond, an irate governor had gathered his forces from
the east and from the west. Letters came and went between Jefferson City and Jefferson Davis,
their purport being that the Governor was to work out his own salvation, for a while at least.
Young men of St. Louis, struck in a night by the fever of militarism, arose and went to Glencoe.
Prying sergeants and commissioned officers, mostly of hated German extraction, thundered at
the door of Colonel Carvel's house, and other houses, there--for Glencoe was a border town.
They searched the place more than once from garret to cellar, muttered guttural oaths, and
smelled of beer and sauerkraut, The haughty appearance of Miss Carvel did not awe them--they
were blind to all manly sensations. The Colonel's house, alas, was one of many in Glencoe written
down in red ink in a book at headquarters as a place toward which the feet of the young men
strayed. Good evidence was handed in time and time again that the young men had come and gone,
and red-faced commanding officers cursed indignant subalterns, and implied that Beauty had
had a hand in it. Councils of war were held over the advisability of seizing Mr. Carvel's house
at Glencoe, but proof was lacking until one rainy night in June a captain and ten men spurred
up the drive and swung into a big circle around the house. The Captain took off his cavalry
gauntlet and knocked at the door, more gently than usual. Miss Virginia was home so Jackson
said. The Captain was given an audience more formal than one with the queen of Prussia could
have been, Miss Carvel was infinitely more haughty than her Majesty. Was not the Captain hired
to do a degrading service? Indeed, he thought so as he followed her about the house and he
felt like the lowest of criminals as he opened a closet door or looked under a bed. He was
a beast of the field, of the mire. How Virginia shrank from him if he had occasion to pass
her! Her gown would have been defiled by his touch. And yet the Captain did not smell of beer,
nor of sauerkraut; nor did he swear in any language. He did his duty apologetically, but he
did it. He pulled a man (aged seventeen) out from under a great hoop skirt in a little closet,
and the man had a pistol that refused its duty when snapped in the Captain's face. This was
little Spencer Catherwood, just home from a military academy.

"Oh, she liked her for herself, too. We all did. We couldn't help it. But you haven't any idea,
either of you, of even the beginning of what Frederica did for her--steered her just right,
and pushed her just enough, and all the while seeming not to be doing a thing. Freddy's such
a peach at that! And she's been so big-hearted about it; never even _felt_ jealous. If it had
been me, and I'd adored a brother like that, and he'd gone off and fallen in love with a girl
nobody knew, just because he saw her in a wrestling-match with a street-car conductor, I'd
have wanted, whatever I might have done, to--well, show her up. And yet, even after Rose had
left him, for no reason at all, Freddy ..."

"You're just guessing at all that, you know," her husband interrupted quietly. "You don't _know_
a single thing about it."

"Well, what reason _could_ Rose have for leaving him?" she flashed back. "Hasn't Rodney been
perfectly crazy about her ever since he married her? Has he ever _seen_ another woman the last
two years? Or maybe you think he's been coming home drunk and beating her with a trunk-strap."

But John stuck to his guns. "You don't even know she's left him. The only thing you do know
is that Bella Forrester met Frederica one day, about a week before Christmas, in the railway
station at Los Angeles."

"Well, can you tell me any other reason," Violet demanded, "why Freddy should dash off alone
to California, right in the middle of the holiday rush, without saying a word to anybody, and
be back here in just a week; and not tell even _me_ what she'd been doing, or where she'd been,
so that if Bella hadn't written to me, I'd never have known about it at all? Is there any way
of explaining that, except by supposing that Rose had quarreled with Rodney and left him and
that Freddy was trying to get her to come back?"

Spencer was taken through the rain by the chagrined Captain to the headquarters, where he caused
a little embarrassment. No damning evidence was discovered on his person, for the pistol had
long since ceased to be a firearm. And so after a stiff lecture from the Colonel he was finally
given back into the custody of his father. Despite the pickets, the young men filtered through
daily,--or rather nightly. Presently some of them began to come back, gaunt and worn and tattered,
among the grim cargoes that were landed by the thousands and tens of thousands on the levee.
And they took them (oh, the pity of it!) they took them to Mr. Lynch's slave pen, turned into
a Union prison of detention, where their fathers and grandfathers had been wont to send their
disorderly and insubordinate niggers. They were packed away, as the miserable slaves had been,
to taste something of the bitterness of the negro's lot. So came Bert Russell to welter in
a low room whose walls gave out the stench of years. How you cooked for them, and schemed for
them, and cried for them, you devoted women of the South! You spent the long hot summer in
town, and every day you went with your baskets to Gratiot Street, where the infected old house
stands, until--until one morning a lady walked out past the guard, and down the street. She
was civilly detained at the corner, because she wore army boots. After that permits were issued.
If you were a young lady of the proper principles in those days, you climbed a steep pair of
stairs in the heat, and stood in line until it became your turn to be catechised by an indifferent
young officer in blue who sat behind a table and smoked a horrid cigar. He had little time
to be courteous. He was not to be dazzled by a bright gown or a pretty face; he was indifferent
to a smile which would have won a savage. His duty was to look down into your heart, and extract
therefrom the nefarious scheme you had made to set free the man you loved ere he could be sent
north to Alton or Columbus. My dear, you wish to rescue him, to disguise him, send him south
by way of Colonel Carvel's house at Glencoe. Then he will be killed. At least, he will have
died for the South.

First politics, and then war, and then more politics, in this our country. Your masterful politician
obtains a regiment, and goes to war, sword in hand. He fights well, but he is still the politician.
It was not a case merely of fighting for the Union, but first of getting permission to fight.
Camp Jackson taken, and the prisoners exchanged south, Captain Lyon; who moved like a whirlwind,
who loved the Union beyond his own life, was thrust down again. A mutual agreement was entered
into between the Governor and the old Indian fighter in command of the Western Department,
to respect each other. A trick for the Rebels. How Lyon chafed, and paced the Arsenal walks
while he might have saved the state. Then two gentlemen went to Washington, and the next thing
that happened was Brigadier General Lyon, Commander of the Department of the West.

Would General Lyon confer with the Governor of Missouri? Yes, the General would give the Governor
a safe-conduct into St. Louis, but his Excellency must come to the General. His Excellency
came, and the General deigned to go with the Union leader to the Planters House. Conference,
five hours; result, a safe-conduct for the Governor back. And this is how General Lyon ended
the talk. His words, generously preserved by a Confederate colonel who accompanied his Excellency,
deserve to be writ in gold on the National Annals.

The remarkable fact concerning these stones, is the similarity, in numerous instances complete,
of the sculptures graven on them to those at Nineveh, as though the hyperborean and the
Oriental had a common origin. 'Surely,' adds Dr Buist, 'coincidences such as these can neither
be fanciful nor accidental; they carry us far back beyond the ages of those we call the aborigines
of Britain, as the pyramids and sculptured stones of Yucatan precede the days of the Red Men
whom Cortes found peopling America.'
The Dutch Society of Sciences at Haarlem have published their prize-list, in which they offer
2000 florins for the most important discovery in natural science
which shall be made between the present year and 1856; and they
propose sixty-one questions, the successful replies to obtain a
gold medal worth 150 florins, and money to the same amount.

Among them are:--The best geological description of the principal hot springs of Europe, their
position, course, and quality, so as to show if they have any
relation in common, and what relation exists between their changes
and the changes caused by earthquakes, volcanoes, &c.
