"What breaks me all up," Violet burst out, abandoning the pretense of picking over her walnuts,
and showing, with a little outflung gesture, how impatient she had been to take it up, "what
breaks me all up is how this'll hit Frederica. She just adores Rodney and she's been simply
wonderful to Rose--for him, of course."

Neither of the men said anything, but she felt a little stir of protest from both of them and
qualified the last phrase.

"Oh, she liked her for herself, too. We all did. We couldn't help it. But you haven't any idea,
either of you, of even the beginning of what Frederica did for her--steered her just right,
and pushed her just enough, and all the while seeming not to be doing a thing. Freddy's such
a peach at that! And she's been so big-hearted about it; never even _felt_ jealous. If it had
been me, and I'd adored a brother like that, and he'd gone off and fallen in love with a girl
nobody knew, just because he saw her in a wrestling-match with a street-car conductor, I'd
have wanted, whatever I might have done, to--well, show her up. And yet, even after Rose had
left him, for no reason at all, Freddy ..."

"You're just guessing at all that, you know," her husband interrupted quietly. "You don't _know_
a single thing about it."

"Well, what reason _could_ Rose have for leaving him?" she flashed back. "Hasn't Rodney been
perfectly crazy about her ever since he married her? Has he ever _seen_ another woman the last
two years? Or maybe you think he's been coming home drunk and beating her with a trunk-strap."

But John stuck to his guns. "You don't even know she's left him. The only thing you do know
is that Bella Forrester met Frederica one day, about a week before Christmas, in the railway
station at Los Angeles."

"Well, can you tell me any other reason," Violet demanded, "why Freddy should dash off alone
to California, right in the middle of the holiday rush, without saying a word to anybody, and
be back here in just a week; and not tell even _me_ what she'd been doing, or where she'd been,
so that if Bella hadn't written to me, I'd never have known about it at all? Is there any way
of explaining that, except by supposing that Rose had quarreled with Rodney and left him and
that Freddy was trying to get her to come back?"

Neither of the men could offer, on the spur of the moment, the alternative explanation she
demanded. Indeed it would have taken a good deal of ingenuity to construct one. It was safer,
anyway, just to go on looking incredulous.

There was silence for a minute or two, then Violet burst out again. "And then, after all Freddy
had done, for Rose to come back here to Chicago, with all the other cities in the country where
it wouldn't matter what she did, and start to be, of all things, a chorus-girl! It's just a"--she
hesitated over the word, and then used it with an inflection that gave it its full literal
meaning--"just a _dirty_ trick. And poor Freddy, when she knows ...!"

"I don't believe a word of it," said John Williamson. "I don't believe Doris Dane--if that's
her name--is Rose, in the first place. And I don't believe Rose has had a quarrel with Rodney.
But if she has, and if she's really there in that show ... Well, I know Rose--not so well as
I'd have liked to, but pretty well--and I know she's a fine girl and I know she's square. And
if I ever saw a girl in love with her husband, she was. Well, and if she has done it, she's
got a reason for it. Oh, I don't mean another woman or a trunk-strap, or any of the regular
divorce court stuff. That's absurd, of course. And it may be, really, a fool reason. But you
can bet it didn't look like that to her. She wouldn't have done it, admitting it's what she's
done, unless she felt she had to."

The extensive country which is thus governed, cannot be better described than in the words
of Sir Harry Smith, who, in a dispatch written in January 1848, gives the following account
of the whole region, which he had just traversed, on his way from the Cape to Natal. He
describes it as 'a country well fitted for the pasturage of cattle, and covered in every
direction with large game. It is,' he adds, 'strongly undulating; and although badly watered,
well adapted for the construction of dams; and, the soil being
generally rich, it is capable, if irrigated, of producing every
species of grain.

It is miserably destitute of trees, frequently even of bush, and is thickly studded with abrupt and
isolated hills, whose height frequently approaches that of mountains. Over the greater part
of this tract of country, not a single native is to be seen; nor for many years, if ever, has
it been inhabited by one. The gardens of the emigrants (boers) are in many places very good; their
houses miserable, as they have been deterred from exhausting their little remaining capital
by building on a doubtful and precarious tenure.

That objection to the increase of their comfort, if the word be applicable, will now, I
trust, be happily removed.' The absence of trees, of which Sir Harry speaks, is believed to
have originated from the same cause which occasions a similar want in the prairies of America--that
is, the native custom of burning down the grass every winter, to fertilise the soil. Where
trees have been planted recently, they have grown well. The apple, pear, peach, and other
fruit-trees of temperate climates, are found to thrive and produce abundantly. The whole
country, it should be added, is a great plateau, elevated 2000 or
3000 feet above the level of the sea.

The climate is, therefore, cooler than in Natal, which is situated in the same latitude, but
at a lower elevation.

It was not till Sir Harry Smith had thus proclaimed the royal supremacy, in 1848, that English
colonists began to establish themselves in any considerable numbers in the country. But they
then soon found their way thither, principally as traders, and settled in the new towns which
quickly sprang up in the several districts. Bloem Fontein, the capital, is now almost wholly
an English town. It has its municipality; its weekly newspaper--printed in English and Dutch;
its English and 'Dutch Reformed' churches, and Wesleyan Chapel;
its government school; its market; and various other appurtenances
of a flourishing town, all of which have come into existence since
Sir Harry Smith made his flying visit to the province in 1848, and
proclaimed it subject to Her Majesty's supremacy.

Such magic resides in a British governor's proclamation!

But the growth of Bloem Fontein, rapid as it has been, is not so striking as that of another
town. There is a well-known story of a traveller, in a newly-settled part of North America,
inquiring his way at a lonely hut to a 'city' which made a conspicuous
figure in some land-speculator's map, and receiving the startling
information, that he was then standing in the principal square.

An adventure of much the same nature befell a traveller in South Africa, who, in February
1850, attempted, while on his way from Bloem Fontein to Natal, to
discover the newly-founded town of Harrismith.

'At length,' he writes, 'having reached the eastern side of the mountain, I halted, and
determined to go in search of this new-born town--a future city in our vast empire.
"If she had some virtuous woman-suffrage reason, she'd
do more than tell him. She'd rub it in. Of course he knows. Well, what shall we do about that?"

"Same vote," said John Williamson; "shut up. Certainly if he knows, that lets us out."

But Violet wasn't satisfied. "That's the easiest thing, certainly," she said, "but I don't
believe it's right. I think the people who know him best, ought to know--just a few, the people
he still drops in on, like the Crawfords, and the Wests, and Eleanor and James Randolph; just
so that they could--well, _not_ know completely enough; so that they wouldn't, innocently,
you know, say ghastly things to him. Or even, perhaps, do them, like making him go to musical
shows, or talking about people who run away to go on the stage. There are millions of things
like that that could happen, and if they know, they'll be careful."

Her husband wasn't very completely convinced, though she expounded her reasons at length, and
urged them with growing intensity. But he'd never put a categorical veto upon her yet, and
it wasn't likely he'd begin by trying to, now.

As for Jimmy Wallace, he was really out of it. But he went home feeling rather blue.

CHAPTER XI

THE SHORT CIRCUIT AGAIN

It was, after all, out of that limbo that Jimmy had spoken of as the margin of the unforeseeable,
that the blind instrument of Fate appeared. He was a country lawyer from down-state, who, for
a client of his own, had retained Rodney to defend a will that presented complexities in the
matter of perpetuities and contingent remainders utterly beyond his own powers. He'd been in
Chicago three or four days, spending an hour or two of every day in Rodney's office in consultation
with him, and, for the rest of the time, dangling about, more or less at a loose end. A belated
sense of this struck Rodney when, at the end of their last consultation, the country lawyer
shook hands with him and announced his departure for home on the five o'clock train.

"I'm sorry I haven't been able to do more," Rodney said,--"do anything really, in the way of
showing you a good time. As a matter of fact, I've spent every evening this week here in the
office."

"Oh, I haven't lacked for entertainment," the man said. "We hayseeds find the city a pretty
lively place. I went to see a show just last night called _The Girl Up-stairs_. I suppose you've
seen it."

"No," said Rodney, "I haven't."

"Well, the title's pretty raw, of course, but the show's all right. Nothing objectionable about
it, and it was downright funny. I haven't laughed so hard in a year. Pretty tunes, too. I tried
to-day to get some records of it but they didn't have any yet. If you want a real good time,
you go to see it."

The Vaal River--sometimes called the Nu Gariep, and sometimes the Yellow River--is the principal
tributary of the Orange River; indeed, it is so large an affluent, that some geographers
have doubted, as in the case of the Mississippi and the Missouri, which should properly be
considered the main stream.

These rivers, the Orange and the Vaal, rising near together in the Drakenberg chain, take a
wide circuit, the one to the south-west, the other to the north-west, and flow each a
distance of about 400 miles before their junction. The territory which they thus enclose
is nearly as large as England, comprising between 40,000 and 50,000 square miles. It is
inhabited by about 80,000 natives, of various Bechuana, Namaqua, and half-caste tribes, and by
some 15,000 or 20,000 colonists of European origin.
It had occurred to him to wonder, as he stood listening to his client's enthusiastic description
of the show at the Globe, whether it would be possible, in any surroundings, for him, for an
hour or two, to laugh and be jolly--and forget. It might be an experiment worth trying!

"Telephone over to the University Club," he said suddenly to Miss Beach, "and see if you can
get me a seat for _The Girl Up-stairs_."

The office boy was out on an errand and in his absence the switchboard was Miss Beach's care.

"The--_The Girl Up-stairs_?" she repeated.

"That's what he said, isn't it?"

"Yes," she assented. "That's--the name of it."

He might have been expected, after giving an order like that, to go striding back into his
private office and slam the door after him. But beyond this boundary, extensive plains and
undulating downs, covered with nutritious herbage like the American prairies, spread out invitingly
towards the distant northern horizon. The exterminating wars among
the native tribes had left these grassy plains almost wholly
unoccupied.

You might travel over them for days without meeting a human being, or any traces of human
possession, except here and there the decaying huts and bleaching skeletons of the former
inhabitants.Finally he roused himself enough to look
around at her.

"Go ahead and telephone," he said. "I want to find out if I can get a seat."

She arose obediently and moved over to the switchboard, then began fumbling with the directory.

"Good lord!" said Rodney. "You know the number of the University Club!"

Of course it was true she did. She called it up for him on an average of a dozen times a week.
A brief description of this remarkable colony may serve to awaken for it an interest which its
future progress, if at all corresponding with the past, will probably keep alive.

There is some difficulty in describing the 'Orange River Sovereignty'--for
such is the long and rather awkward name by which this settlement
is now known--so as to convey a correct idea of its situation without
the aid of a map.

That the Cape Colony occupies the southern coast of the African
continent, and that the colony of Natal is on the south-eastern
coast, are facts of which few readers will need to be reminded.

Will it, then, be sufficient to say, that the 'sovereignty' in
question is situated in the interior, between these two colonies,
having the Cape on the south, and Natal on the east?

"And you didn't like it, eh?"

"No," she said.

By now he was grinning at her outright. "Vulgar?" he asked.

Her color had mounted again. "Yes," she said.

The notion of having his dramatic entertainment censored by a frail, prim little thing like
Miss Beach tickled his burly sense of humor. "It would be a horrible thing if I should go to
see anything vulgar, wouldn't it?" he observed. "But I think I'll take a chance. You go ahead
and telephone."

At that she rose and, for the first time, faced him. To his amazement, he saw that she was
in a perfect panic of embarrassment and fright. But, for some grotesque reason, she was determined,
too. She was blushing up to the hair and her lips were trembling.

"Mr. Aldrich," she said, "you won't like that show. If--if you go, you'll be sorry."

While he was still staring at her, young Craig came bursting blithely out of his office, a
bundle of papers in his hand and the pucker of a silent whistle still on his lips. "Oh, Miss
Beach!" he said, and then stopped short, seeing that something had happened.

Rodney tried an experiment. Taking my attendant, Andries, with me, we proceeded to an elevation,
where I felt sure it must come into view. We were disappointed.

Not a spire, nor chimney, nor hut could be seen; and so we walked on towards another elevation.
"Yes, sir," he said, swung around and marched back into his own
cubby-hole.

"You needn't telephone, Miss Beach," said Rodney curtly. And without another word he put on
his hat and overcoat and left the office.

